republican im jeb bush and i believe americas on the verge of its greatest century and im ready to lead im a committed conservative
republican reformer that cut taxes that balanced budgets that took on the special interest in florida and we won i look forward
republican to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken washington dc and create an environment where people can rise up
republican again in this great country thank you i think the voters will make that determination but what i know to be true
republican is that the next president of the united states is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation this
republican administration with president obama and hillary clinton has created insecurity the likes of which we never wouldve
republican imagined theres not a place in the world where were better off today than six and a half years ago and that requires
republican a steadiness that requires an understanding of how the world works that requires an understanding and appreciation
republican of american leadership in the world you cant just you know talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world
republican and expect a good result you have to do this with a steady hand and i believe i have those skills no absolutely not
republican people are supporting me because i have a proven record of conservative leadership where i cut taxes 19 billion over
republican eight years we shrunk the state government workforce we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven
republican out of eight years we were one of two states to go to aaa bond rating people know that we need principlecentered
republican leadership a disrupter to go to washington dc the one guy that had some special interests that i know of that tried
republican to get me to change my views on something that was generous and gave me money was donald trump he wanted casino gambling
republican in florida yes you did you wanted it and you didnt get it because i was opposed to casino gambling before during
republican and after and thats not im not going to be bought by anybody no way believe me not even possible youve got according
republican to your to what you said on one of the talk shows you got hillary clinton to go to your wedding because you gave
republican her money maybe it works for hillary clinton it doesnt work for anybody on this on stage but the simple fact is no
republican the simple fact is donald you could not take i was asked the question so he supports pelosi he supports schumer he
republican supports clinton when he and he when he asked when he asked florida to have casino gambling we said no we said no
republican and thats the simple fact the simple fact is dont cut me off no i dont think so but we need to be strong against
republican china we should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security send a deterrent signal to china there should
republican be super sanctions in what president obama has proposed theres many other tools that we have without canceling a
republican dinner thats not going to change anything but we can be much stronger as it relates to that as it relates to iran
republican its not a strategy to tear up an agreement a strategy would be how do we confront iran and the first thing that we
republican need to do is to establish our commitment to israel which has been altered by this administration and make sure that
republican they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to iran that we have israels back if we do that its going
republican to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else i can think of i dont think youre not stating my views
republican right i think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith religious conscience is is is a first freedom
republican its its a powerful part of our of our bill of rights and in a big tolerant country we should respect the rule of
republican law allow people in in in this country im a i was opposed to the decision but we you cant just say well they gays
republican cant get married now but this woman there should be some accommodation for her conscience just as there should be
republican for people that are florists that dont want to participate in weddings or bakers a great country like us should find
republican a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way this should be solved at
republican the local level and so we do agree mike well hes wrong on a lot of things but on this hes wrong because im the most
republican prolife governor on this stage i got to act on my core beliefs its part of who i am life is a gift from god and from
republican beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life and so i defunded planned parenthood we created a
republican climate where parental notification took place we were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state
republican moneys we were totally focused on this and i would bring that kind of philosophy to washington dc so here is a solution
republican to this title x of the hhs funding there is something that was the reagan rule it was passed in 1988 and in that
republican rule it was defined and the courts approved this that a planned parenthood you couldnt separate the money between
republican the actual abortion procedures and there are 330000 abortions that take place in this clinic and their promotion
republican of it he interpreted it the right way the courts ruled in his favor and planned parenthood did not get funding during
republican that time until president clinton came in when im elected president we will restore that interpretation of title
republican x and this deal will be finished there are 13000 communitybased organizations that provide health services to women
republican 13000 in this country i dont believe that planned parenthood should get a penny from the federal government those
republican organizations should get funding just as i increased funding when i was governor of the state thats the way you do
republican this is you improve the condition for people and donald when i was governor we also increased the opportunities for
republican women womens income grew three times faster than the national average when i was governor we improved we improved
republican we increased child support we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent i have a proven record i
republican have a proven record he did he did youre proud of your family just as i am to subject my wife into the middle of
republican a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate and i hope you apologize for that donald she is shes
republican fantastic she is absolutely the love of my life and shes right here and why dont you apologize to her right now yeah
republican so heres the deal my wife is a mexicanamerican shes an american by choice she loves this country as much as anybody
republican in this room and she wants a secure border but she wants to embrace the traditional american values that make us
republican special and make us unique were at a crossroads right now are we going to take the reagan approach the hopeful optimistic
republican approach the approach that says that you come to our country legally you pursue your dreams with a vengeance you
republican create opportunities for all of us or the donald trump approach the approach that says that everything is bad that
republican everything is coming to an end i im on the reagan side of this look first of all i wrote a book about this three
republican four years ago now and i laid out a comprehensive conservative approach for immigration reform and it does require
republican securing the border no one disagrees with that but to build a wall and to deport people half a million a month would
republican cost hundreds of billions of dollars donald hundreds of billions of dollars it would destroy community life it would
republican tear families apart and it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the united states values that are so
republican important for our longterm success no longer matter in this country well ive been speaking english here tonight and
republican ill keep speaking english but the simple fact is if a high school kid asks me a question in spanish a school by the
republican way a voucher program that was created under my watch the largest voucher program in the country where kids can go
republican to a christian school and they ask me a question in spanish im going to show respect and answer that question in
republican spanish even though they do speak english and even though they embrace american values yeah well first of all hugh
republican if youre looking at republican advisers you have to go to the last two administrations that happened to be 41 and
republican 43 so just by definition if youre and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts
republican in the republican side they they served in my dads administration my brothers administration of course thats the
republican case but im my own man im going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the united states needs
republican to lead the world the first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester rebuild our military
republican so that our so that we dont deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe to
republican send a signal to the world that were serious if were going to lead the world then we need to have the strongest military
republican possible we need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities we need to focus on the fact that
republican the next president is going to start in 2017 not in 1990 you know 30 years ago or when my brother started the world
republican is dramatically different and i believe that we need to restore americas presence and leadership in the world name
republican a country where our relationship is better today than it was the the day that barack obama got elected president
republican under hillary clinton and barack obama we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president
republican of the united states so ill have a team that will be that will be following the doctrine i set up and it will be
republican peace through strength were sitting here in this library which is a wonderful place to talk about this because thats
republican exactly what happened in the 1980s and the world was a lot safer because of the leadership of ronald reagan and my
republican so you the the first chance right after me and then ill ill yield yield the floor what do you guys say in the senate
republican when youre talking and debating heres the is a great negotiator that she could bring about a better deal on iran
republican you know what as it relates to my brother theres one thing i know for sure he kept us safe i dont know if you remember
republican donald you remember the the rumble you remember the fire fighter with his arms around it he sent a clear signal that
republican the united states would be strong and fight islamic terrorism and he did keep us safe thats thats my brother heres
republican the lessons of because of what president obamas done by pulling back well im surprised senator cruz would say that
republican since he was as strong supporter of john roberts at the time i will talk about what i will do as it relates to appointing
republican supreme court justices we need to make sure that we have justices that with a proven experienced record of respect
republican for upholding the constitution that is what we need we cant have the history in recent past is appoint people that
republican have no experience so that you cant get attacked and that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they
republican wont veer off john roberts has made some really good decisions for sure but he did not have a proven extensive record
republican that would have made the clarity the important thing and thats what we need to do and im willing to fight for those
republican nominees to make sure that they get passed you cant do it the politically expedient way anymore this is the culture
republican in washington you have to fight hard for these appointments this is perhaps the most important thing that the next
republican president will do well first of all he as i said supported john roberts he supported him publicly so you can rewrite
republican history i guess ted but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would
republican have thought would have made a great justice and i think he is doing a good job but the simple fact is that going
republican forward what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it
republican clear that he is a focused exclusively on upholding the constitution of the united states so they wont try to use
republican the bench as a means to which legislate he was talking about me well i i wanted to be make it easier for him and
republican i just did so 40 years ago i smoked marijuana and i admit it im sure that other people might have done it and may
republican not want to say it in front of 25 million people my moms not happy that i just did thats true and heres the deal
republican heres the deal we have we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana what goes on in colorado
republican as far as im concerned that should be a state decision but if you look at the problem of drugs in this in this society
republican today its a serious problem rand you know this because youre campaigning in new hampshire like all of us and you
republican see the epidemic of heroin the overdoses of heroin thats taking place peoples families are are being torn apart it
republican is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment more prevention
republican were the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in in in florida there are drug courts to give
republican people a second chance thats the best way to do this no youre wrong youre wrong about this i dont want to put poor
republican people in jail randy heres the deal no i did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very
republican issue thats the way to solve this problem medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up there was a huge loophole
republican it was the first step to getting to a place and as a citizen of florida i voted no not very far i think we need to
republican do this state by state there are places that get this right and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy
republican laws this is a complicated place but i do think the natural impulse on the left hillary clinton immediately after
republican one of these horrific violent acts took place immediately said we need to have federal gun laws president obama almost
republican reflexively always says the same thing and the net result is youre going to take away rights of of lawabiding citizens
republican the 99999 percent of the people that are law abiding citizens thats not the right approach to do it in florida we
republican have a background check we have concealedweapon permit holders and in fact theres 1200000 of them we have a reduction
republican in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime thats the better
republican approach but were living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation i i think there needs to be
republican a hearing but the fact is we need to encourage that kind of involvement thats thats exactly what we need to do i
republican would go with ronald reagans partner margaret thatcher probably illegal but what the heck since its not going to
republican happen a strong leader is what we need in the white house and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the
republican united kingdom into greatness ever ready its very high energy donald six million more people are living in poverty
republican than the day that barack obama got elected president six million more people the middle class has had declining income
republican workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977 for the first time in modern history more businesses
republican are failing than are being created that is what the next president will have to deal with and i believe we can reverse
republican course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left
republican says we just have to get used to but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax fix the broken regulatory
republican system embrace the energy revolution in our midst fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver
republican deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create
republican way too much debt if we grow at 4 percent people are going to be lifted out of poverty the great middle that defines
republican our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit that should be the great challenge
republican and the great opportunity for the next president of the united states to forge consensus to go back to a highgrowth
republican strategy and then well be able to lead the world without a highgrowth strategy our country will never have the resources
republican or the optimism to be able to lead the world which the world desperately needs our leadership
