republican hi im ben carson and im a retired pediatric neurosurgeon im here with my wife candy of 40 years and two of my sons
republican and their wives i stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that ive gotten involved in this race
republican is because im very concerned about the future of our children and the direction of our country is one that does not
republican portend well unless we the people intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle typically politicians do
republican things that are politically expedient and they are looking for whatever their particular goal is that is not the
republican reason that i have gotten into this thing im extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country the divisiveness
republican that is going on fiscal irresponsibility the failure to take a leadership position in the world all of those things
republican will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that weve had now so i dont i dont want
republican to really get into describing whos a politician and whos not a politician but i think the people have kind of made
republican that decision for themselves already and will continue to do so as time goes on jake can i say something about that
republican you know when i entered this race all the political pundits said its impossible you cant do it because youre not
republican connected with the money and theres no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully i in
republican no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires i have said to
republican the people if they want me to do this please get involved and we now have over 500000 donations and the money is
republican coming in but the pundits forgot about one thing and that is the people and they are really in charge well first
republican of all i recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem i was down in arizona a few weeks ago at
republican the border i mean the fences that were there were not manned and those are the kind of fences when i was a kid that
republican would barely slow us down so i dont see any purpose in having that now what we need to do is look at something that
republican actually works yuma county arizona they stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there they put in a double
republican fence with a road so that there was quick access by the enforcement people if we dont seal the border the rest of
republican this stuff clearly doesnt matter its kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about we have the ability to
republican do it we dont have the will to do it there was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence and to repair it they
republican put a few strands of barb wire across well the photographers who were there with us they wanted to photograph us
republican from the side of the mexicans and they went through there and they were not physically fit people and they took their
republican cameras and things with them and shot us from the other side thats how easy it is to get across and the drugs i mean
republican it goes on and on and on ice tells them to release these people 67000 criminals released on to our property its ridiculous
republican well i have also said if anybody knows how to do that that i would be willing to listen and if they can you know
republican specify exactly how thats going to be done and what the cost and it sounds reasonable then i think its worth discussing
republican not exactly what i said well what i said after we seal the borders after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all
republican the goodies so we dont have people coming in here including employment that people who had a pristine record we should
republican consider allowing them to become guest workers primarily in the agricultural sphere because thats the place where
republican americans dont seem to want to work thats what i said and they have a sixmonth period to do that if they dont do
republican it within that time period then they become illegal and as illegals they will be treated as such can i can i can
republican i just can i correct ok my plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons number one you know ive talked to farmers
republican and they said they cannot hire americans to do the kind of job that im talking about and the second reason is because
republican the individuals who register as guest workers they dont get to vote they are not american citizens and they dont
republican get the rights and privileges of american citizens so thats key but the other thing that i want to bring up is i
republican mentioned something earlier i think it was just sort of glossed over i talked about the success in yuma county i
republican mean incredible success and the department of justice said no we dont want to do that thats too successful we dont
republican have to keep reinventing the wheel all we have to do is look at things that work all we have to do is use a little
republican common sense its all about america you know the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had
republican 10 he has still got 9 billion left thats not fair we need to take more of his money thats called socialism that doesnt
republican work so well what made america into a great nation was the fact that we said that guy just put in 1 billion lets
republican create an environment thats even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in 2 billion and thats
republican the kind of thing that helps us to grow we cant grow by continuing to take a piece of pie and dividing it and redistributing
republican it but im also looking at what doctor at what governor huckabee talked about the fair tax looking at both of them
republican and evaluating them both and im talking to the american people because one of the things we must recognize is that
republican this country is of for and by the people and its really time that the government get out of the way and let the people
republican be the ones who decide how they want to run their country well first of all let me say what i actually said about
republican raising the minimum wage i was asked should it be raised i said probably or possibly but what i added which i think
republican is the most important thing so i said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down and talk about it negotiate
republican a reasonable minimum wage and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of
republican america i think we also have to have two minimum wages a starter and a sustaining because how are young people ever
republican going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them jake jake i havent
republican had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy and i just want to mention that when the war when the issue occurred
republican in 2003 i suggested to president bush that he not go to war ok so i just want that on the record and you know a lot
republican of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism and they refer back to our invasion
republican of iraq and they seem to think that that was what caused it what caused it was withdrawing from there and creating
republican a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur but it is very different from what is going on today were
republican talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us they are an existential threat to our nation and we
republican have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand we have
republican to recognize we have two choices we either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners or we
republican use every resource available to us to destroy them first well recognize that you know president george w bush is
republican a great friend of ours and we spent many wonderful days at the white house i havent been there in the last seven
republican years i probably have to have a foodtester but at any rate i didnt suggest that nothing be done what i suggested
republican to president bush is to be kennedyesque in the sense that when the russians got ahead of us in the space race what
republican we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody business industry academia behind a national goal to put a
republican man on the moon and bring him back safely i said you can do the same kind of thing declare that within five to 10
republican years we will become petroleum independent the moderate arab states would have been so concerned about that they
republican would have turned over osama bin laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks there are
republican smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things and sometimes you have to look at both of those
republican to come up with the right solution i have no argument with having a strong leader and to be aggressive where aggression
republican is needed but it is not needed in every circumstance there is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with
republican other ways to do things and i think thats what we have to start thinking about there is no question that a lot of
republican these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak it
republican is because our navy is so small it is because our air force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few
republican years ago its because our marines corps is not ready to be deployed there are a lot of problems that are going on
republican and we need to solve those problems we need to build up our military well let me put it this way there has there
republican have been numerous studies and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and
republican autism this was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago and it has not been adequately you know revealed
republican to the public whats actually going on vaccines are very important certain ones the ones that would prevent death
republican or crippling there are others there are a multitude of vaccines which probably dont fit in that category and there
republican should be some discretion in those cases but you know a lot of this is is is pushed by big government and i think
republican thats one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of big government you know we have 41 million federal
republican employees six hundred and fifty federal agencies and department thats why they have to take so much of our taxes
republican well you know ive just explained it to him he can read about it if he wants to i think hes an intelligent man and
republican will make the correct decision after getting the real facts hes an ok doctor but you know the fact of the matter
republican is we have extremely welldocumented proof that theres no autism associated with vaccinations but it is true that
republican we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time and a lot of pediatricians now recognize that and
republican i think are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done and i think thats appropriate id
republican put my mother on there you know she was one of 24 children got married at age 13 had only a third grade education
republican had to raise two sons by herself refused to be a victim wouldnt let us be victims and has been an inspiration to
republican many people one nation well you know i was a radical democrat before i started listening to ronald reagan and he
republican didnt sound like what they said republicans were he sounded logical and i hope that i sound logical also because
republican when i look at what is going on with the united states of america i see a lot of things that are not logical i see
republican us allowing people to divide us when in fact our strength is in our unity i see people exercising the most irresponsible
republican fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do and hiding it from the american people so that the majority of people
republican have no idea what our financial situation is so when someone comes along and says free college free phones free this
republican and that and the other they say wow thats nice having no idea that theyre destabilizing our position and i think
republican also that ronald reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads if we
republican learn to lead in the middle east right now a coalition will form behind us but never they do it if we just sit there
republican and talk about it real leadership is what i would hopefully bring to america
