democrat thank you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for organizing this debate not only will americans be electing
democrat a new president next year we also will be electing a world leader voters should assess the candidates experience
democrat character and vision for the future as they make this important decision im the only one running for president that
democrat has been a mayor a united states senator and a governor as mayor i brought labor peace to my city and kept taxes
democrat down i was reelected three times as a senator i earned a reputation for courageous votes against the bushcheney tax
democrat cuts the favored the wealthy against the tragedy of the iraq war for environmental stewardship for protection of
democrat our civil liberties i served on the foreign relations committee and i chaired the middle east subcommittee for four
democrat years as governor i came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state around rhode island had the biggest
democrat drop of the unemployment rate over my four budgets of all but one state it happens to be nevada where were having
democrat this debate im very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service i have had no scandals ive always been honest
democrat i have the courage to take the longterm view and ive shown good judgment i have high ethical standards as we look
democrat to the future i want to address the income inequality close the gap between the haves and the havenots i want to
democrat address climate change a real threat to our planet and i believe in prosperity through peace i want to end these
democrat wars i look forward to the discussion ahead thank you anderson youre looking at a block of granite when it comes
democrat to the issues whether its did you hear what i said on the issues i have not changed on the issues i was a liberal
democrat republican then i was an independent and now im a proud democrat but i have not changed on the issues and i open
democrat my record to scrutiny whether its on the environment a womans right to choose gay marriage fiscal responsibility
democrat aversion to foreign entanglements using the tools of government to help the less fortunate time and time again i
democrat have never changed youre looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues so i have not changed the party
democrat left me theres no doubt about that there was no room for a liberal moderate republican in that party i even had a
democrat primary for my reelection in 2006 i won it but the money poured in to defeat me in rhode island as a republican thats
democrat what we were up against yes i have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation but the reality
democrat is despite these tragedies that happen time and time again when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety
democrat legislation the gun lobby moves in and tells the people theyre coming to take away your guns and theyre successful
democrat at it in colorado and others states the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated
democrat i even saw in rhode island so i would bring the gun lobby in and say weve got to change this where can we find common
democrat ground wayne lapierre from the nra whoever it is the leaders come one weve go to change this were not coming to take
democrat away your guns we believe in the second amendment but lets find common ground here well we just heard senator sanders
democrat say that its the worst decision in american history thats very significant the worst decision in american history
democrat i just heard from senator sanders so as we look ahead if youre going to make those poor judgment calls a critical
democrat time in our history we just finished with the vietnam era getting back into another quagmire if youre looking ahead
democrat and youre looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into iraq when there was no real evidence
democrat of weapons of mass destruction in iraq i know because i did my homework and so thats an indication of how someone
democrat will perform in the future and thats whats important ok i just have to answer one thing that senator webb said about
democrat the iran deal because im a strong proponent of what president obama and he said that because of that the iran deal
democrat that enabled russia to come in no thats not true senator webb i respect your foreign policy chops but russia is aligned
democrat with iran and with assad and the alawite shias in syria so that iran deal did not allow russia to come in its certainly
democrat the chaos in the middle east theres no doubt about it and it all started with the iraq invasion absolutely we have
democrat to repair american credibility after we told the world that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction which
democrat he didnt so theres an issue of american credibility out there so any time someone is running to be our leader and
democrat a world leader which the american president is credibility is an issue out there with the world and we have repair
democrat work to be done i think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president thats how i
democrat feel the glasssteagall was my very first vote id just arrived my dad had died in office i was appointed to the office
democrat it was my very first vote id just arrived at the senate i think wed get some takeovers and that was one it was my
democrat very first vote and it was 925 it was the but let me just say i think youre being a little rough id just arrived
democrat at the united states senate id been mayor of my city my dad had died id been appointed by the governor it was the
democrat first vote and it was 905 because it was a conference report but let me just say about income inequality weve had
democrat a lot of talk over the last few minutes hours or tens of minutes but no one is saying how were going to fix it and
democrat it all started with the bush tax cuts that favored the wealthy so lets go back to the tax code and 06 percent of
democrat americans are at the top echelon over 464000 06 americans thats less than 1 percent but they generate 30 percent
democrat of the revenue and theyre doing fine so theres still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon im saying lets
democrat have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket and that will generate 42 billion and then we can help the
democrat middle class and hardearning americans hardworking americans no that was another 99 to one vote for the patriot act
democrat and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what weve always done to tap phones which always required
democrat a warrant and i voted for that no no as long as youre getting a warrant i believe that under the fourth amendment
democrat you should be able to do surveillance but you need a warrant thats what the fourth amendment says and in the patriot
democrat act section 215 started to get broadened too far so i would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of
democrat the patriot act no i would bring him home the courts have ruled that what he did what he did was say the american
democrat the american government was acting illegally thats what the federal courts have said what snowden did showed that
democrat the american government was acting illegally for the fourth amendment so i would bring him home certainly ending
democrat the wars weve got to stop these wars you have to have a new dynamic a new paradigm we just spent a halfbillion dollars
democrat arming and training soldiers the rebel soldiers in syria they quickly join the other side we bombed the id like to
democrat finish my question my answer and also we just bombed a hospital weve had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings
democrat so i would change how we our approach to the middle east we need a new paradigm in the middle east i guess the coal
democrat lobby ive worked hard for climate change and i want to work with the coal lobby but in my time in the senate tried
democrat to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide im proud to be at odds with the coal lobby thank
democrat you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for sponsoring this debate america has many challenges confronting
democrat us ending the perpetual wars addressing climate change addressing income inequality funding education funding infrastructure
democrat funding healthcare helping black americans helping native americans we have many challenges who is best able to confront
democrat these challenges ive served in government at many levels i know what its like to solve problems at the local level
democrat because i did it as mayor i know how to get legislation passed through congress because i did it as a senator i know
democrat how to turn around a state because i did as governor of rhode island but what im most proud of is that in 30 years
democrat of public service i have had no scandals i have high ethical standards and what im most proud of is my judgment particularly
democrat in the iraq war vote there was a lot of pressure political pressure public pressure but i did my homework and i did
democrat not believe that the evidence was there that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction and we live now with
democrat the consequences so that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward and im running for president
democrat to end the wars i want to be the peacemaker i am a proven peacemaker please go to chafee 2016 to learn more about
democrat me thank you
