positive thank you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for organizing this debate not only will americans be electing
positive a new president next year we also will be electing a world leader voters should assess the candidates experience
positive character and vision for the future as they make this important decision im the only one running for president that
positive has been a mayor a united states senator and a governor as mayor i brought labor peace to my city and kept taxes
positive down i was reelected three times as a senator i earned a reputation for courageous votes against the bushcheney tax
positive cuts the favored the wealthy against the tragedy of the iraq war for environmental stewardship for protection of
positive our civil liberties i served on the foreign relations committee and i chaired the middle east subcommittee for four
positive years as governor i came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state around rhode island had the biggest
positive drop of the unemployment rate over my four budgets of all but one state it happens to be nevada where were having
positive this debate im very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service i have had no scandals ive always been honest
positive i have the courage to take the longterm view and ive shown good judgment i have high ethical standards as we look
positive to the future i want to address the income inequality close the gap between the haves and the havenots i want to
positive address climate change a real threat to our planet and i believe in prosperity through peace i want to end these
positive wars i look forward to the discussion ahead thank you anderson youre looking at a block of granite when it comes
positive to the issues whether its did you hear what i said on the issues i have not changed on the issues i was a liberal
positive republican then i was an independent and now im a proud democrat but i have not changed on the issues and i open
positive my record to scrutiny whether its on the environment a womans right to choose gay marriage fiscal responsibility
positive aversion to foreign entanglements using the tools of government to help the less fortunate time and time again i
positive have never changed youre looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues so i have not changed the party
positive left me theres no doubt about that there was no room for a liberal moderate republican in that party i even had a
positive primary for my reelection in 2006 i won it but the money poured in to defeat me in rhode island as a republican thats
positive what we were up against yes i have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation but the reality
positive is despite these tragedies that happen time and time again when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety
positive legislation the gun lobby moves in and tells the people theyre coming to take away your guns and theyre successful
positive at it in colorado and others states the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated
positive i even saw in rhode island so i would bring the gun lobby in and say weve got to change this where can we find common
positive ground wayne lapierre from the nra whoever it is the leaders come one weve go to change this were not coming to take
positive away your guns we believe in the second amendment but lets find common ground here well we just heard senator sanders
positive say that its the worst decision in american history thats very significant the worst decision in american history
positive i just heard from senator sanders so as we look ahead if youre going to make those poor judgment calls a critical
positive time in our history we just finished with the vietnam era getting back into another quagmire if youre looking ahead
positive and youre looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into iraq when there was no real evidence
positive of weapons of mass destruction in iraq i know because i did my homework and so thats an indication of how someone
positive will perform in the future and thats whats important ok i just have to answer one thing that senator webb said about
positive the iran deal because im a strong proponent of what president obama and he said that because of that the iran deal
positive that enabled russia to come in no thats not true senator webb i respect your foreign policy chops but russia is aligned
positive with iran and with assad and the alawite shias in syria so that iran deal did not allow russia to come in its certainly
positive the chaos in the middle east theres no doubt about it and it all started with the iraq invasion absolutely we have
positive to repair american credibility after we told the world that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction which
positive he didnt so theres an issue of american credibility out there so any time someone is running to be our leader and
positive a world leader which the american president is credibility is an issue out there with the world and we have repair
positive work to be done i think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president thats how i
positive feel the glasssteagall was my very first vote id just arrived my dad had died in office i was appointed to the office
positive it was my very first vote id just arrived at the senate i think wed get some takeovers and that was one it was my
positive very first vote and it was 925 it was the but let me just say i think youre being a little rough id just arrived
positive at the united states senate id been mayor of my city my dad had died id been appointed by the governor it was the
positive first vote and it was 905 because it was a conference report but let me just say about income inequality weve had
positive a lot of talk over the last few minutes hours or tens of minutes but no one is saying how were going to fix it and
positive it all started with the bush tax cuts that favored the wealthy so lets go back to the tax code and 06 percent of
positive americans are at the top echelon over 464000 06 americans thats less than 1 percent but they generate 30 percent
positive of the revenue and theyre doing fine so theres still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon im saying lets
positive have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket and that will generate 42 billion and then we can help the
positive middle class and hardearning americans hardworking americans no that was another 99 to one vote for the patriot act
positive and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what weve always done to tap phones which always required
positive a warrant and i voted for that no no as long as youre getting a warrant i believe that under the fourth amendment
positive you should be able to do surveillance but you need a warrant thats what the fourth amendment says and in the patriot
positive act section 215 started to get broadened too far so i would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of
positive the patriot act no i would bring him home the courts have ruled that what he did what he did was say the american
positive the american government was acting illegally thats what the federal courts have said what snowden did showed that
positive the american government was acting illegally for the fourth amendment so i would bring him home certainly ending
positive the wars weve got to stop these wars you have to have a new dynamic a new paradigm we just spent a halfbillion dollars
positive arming and training soldiers the rebel soldiers in syria they quickly join the other side we bombed the id like to
positive finish my question my answer and also we just bombed a hospital weve had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings
positive so i would change how we our approach to the middle east we need a new paradigm in the middle east i guess the coal
positive lobby ive worked hard for climate change and i want to work with the coal lobby but in my time in the senate tried
positive to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide im proud to be at odds with the coal lobby thank
positive you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for sponsoring this debate america has many challenges confronting
positive us ending the perpetual wars addressing climate change addressing income inequality funding education funding infrastructure
positive funding healthcare helping black americans helping native americans we have many challenges who is best able to confront
positive these challenges ive served in government at many levels i know what its like to solve problems at the local level
positive because i did it as mayor i know how to get legislation passed through congress because i did it as a senator i know
positive how to turn around a state because i did as governor of rhode island but what im most proud of is that in 30 years
positive of public service i have had no scandals i have high ethical standards and what im most proud of is my judgment particularly
positive in the iraq war vote there was a lot of pressure political pressure public pressure but i did my homework and i did
positive not believe that the evidence was there that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction and we live now with
positive the consequences so that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward and im running for president
positive to end the wars i want to be the peacemaker i am a proven peacemaker please go to chafee 2016 to learn more about
positive me thank you
