positive hi my name is chris christie and id like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because id like
positive to ask all of you how many of you raise your hand believe that in todays barak obama america your children will have
positive a better life than youve had you see thats why im running for president because leadership is not about me its about
positive our country and what we talk about tonight its not about us its about the people in the audience tonight because
positive in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust and their faith and their belief that the next
positive generation will have a better life hes stolen that from us and when im president im going to take it back well i
positive know ben wasnt talking about me im sure he was talking about one of the other guys not me as far as being an outsider
positive is concerned as far as being an outsider is concerned let me tell you this jake im a republican in new jersey i wake
positive up every morning as an outsider i wake up every morning with a democratic legislature who trying to beat my head
positive in and fight me because im trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately and so everyone
positive can talk us here about their credentials but the bottom line is every morning i get up i veto 400 bills from a crazy
positive liberal democratic legislature not one of them has been overridden ive vetoed more tax increases than any governor
positive in american history according to americans for tax reform what folks want in this country is somebody to go down
positive there and get the job done and thats exactly what ill do so i know this much that what the american people want to
positive hire right now is somebody who believes in them and believes that they are the ones who can fix our country i will
positive be the vessel through which they can fix this country but its not about me its about all of you and getting this
positive government off your back and out of your way and letting you succeed i know ben wasnt talking about me look at him
positive smiling at me right now i know ben didnt mean it about me one of these other guys im sure be honest ben be honest
positive see jake it wasnt me i was she is and so if she based on conscience cant sign that that marriage license then there
positive should be someone in her office to be able to do it and if the law needs to be changed in the state of kentucky which
positive is what shes advocating it should be changed and why dont we do the same thing with planned parenthood we elected
positive a republican congress to do this and they should be doing it and theyre not and theyre giving the president a pass
positive i put it in the list dana we should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action lets force him
positive to do what he says hes going to do now i dont know whether hell do it or not but lets force him to do it first of
positive jake i dont yield to anybody on how to enforce the law im the only person on this stage who spent seven years as
positive a united states attorney after september 11th and i know how to do this the fact is though that for 15000 people
positive a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the
positive current levels of funding and the current number of law enforcement officers heres what we need to do and i think
positive this is where donald is absolutely right what we need to do is to secure our border and we need to do it with more
positive than just a wall we need to use electronics we need to use drones we need to use fbi dea and atf and yes we need
positive to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa and when they overstay their visa we
positive need to tap them on the shoulder and say you have overstayed your welcome youre taking advantage of the american
positive people its time for you to go if we had that kind of system in place we wouldnt have the 11 million people we have
positive now jake listen while im as entertained as anyone by this personal backandforth about the history of donald and carlys
positive career for the 55yearold construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesnt have a job who cant fund his
positive childs education ive got to tell you the truth they could care less about your careers they care about theirs lets
positive start talking about that on this stage and stop playing and stop playing the games stop playing john im not done
positive yet john stop and stop playing and carly carly listen you can interrupt everybody else on this stage youre not going
positive to interrupt me ok the fact is that we dont want to hear about your careers back and forth and volleying back and
positive forth about who did well and who did poorly youre both successful people congratulations you know whos not successful
positive the middle class in this country whos getting plowed over by barack obama and hillary clinton lets start talking
positive about those issues tonight and stop this childish backandforth between the two of you listen you know hugh its an
positive important point and the question is who is going to prosecute hillary clinton the obama white house seems to have
positive in interest the justice department seems to have no interest i think its time to put a former federal prosecutor
positive on the same stage as hillary clinton and i will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record were
positive talking about here the fact she had a private email server in her basement using national security secrets running
positive through it could have been hacked by the russians the chinese or two 18yearolds on a toot wanting to have some fun
positive no one is answering that question from the hillary clinton campaign you know why because she knows shes wrong and
positive she cannot look in the mirror at herself and she cannot tell the american people the truth well jake i was named
positive us attorney by president bush on september 10th 2001 and that next day my wife mary pat did what she did every day
positive she traveled through the world trade center and went to her office two blocks from the world trade center and after
positive those planes hit for fiveandahalfhours after that i couldnt reach her didnt know whether she was dead or alive and
positive we had three children at the time 8 5 and 1 and i had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had
positive to confront the idea i might become a single parent the idea that my life and my childrens life might be changed
positive forever we lost friends that day we went to the funerals and i will tell you that what those people wanted and what
positive they deserved was for america to answer back against what had been done to them and i support what president bush
positive did at that time going into afghanistan hunting al qaeda and its leaders getting its sanctuary out of place and making
positive it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money and then he went to prosecutors like us and he
positive said never again dont prosecute these people after the crime is committed intervene before the crime happens i absolutely
positive believe that what the president did at the time was right and i am proud to have been one of the people on the stage
positive who was part of making sure that what governor bush said before was the truth america was safe for those seven years
positive and barack obama has taken that safety away from us let me say this jake is that while that may have been a fine
positive idea that dr carson had these people were out to kill us i stood in that region with my family and every time a plane
positive went overhead in the weeks after that peoples heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again
positive you do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point that could be handled later on what you need is a strong
positive american leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation thats what i would do as commanderinchief
positive in this circumstance and thats what president george w bush did in 2001 jake you brought my issue up you know i enjoy
positive the interplay thank you gentlemen ill just say this first off new jersey is the first state in the nation that now
positive says if you are nonviolent nondealing drug user that you dont go to jail for your first offense you go to mandatory
positive treatment you see jake im prolife and i think you need to be prolife for more than just the time in the womb it gets
positive tougher when they get out of the womb and when theyre the 16yearold drug addict in the florida county lockup that
positive life is just as precious as the life in the womb and so thats why im for rehabilitation why i think the war on drugs
positive has been a failure but ill end with this that doesnt mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs and if senator paul
positive thinks that the only victim is the person look at the decrease in productivity look at the way people get used and
positive move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug it is not them that are the only victims their families
positive are the victims too their children are the victims too and their employers are the victims also thats why ill enforce
positive the federal law while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation which weve done in new jersey and senator paul
positive knows that thats simply not the truth in new jersey we have medical marijuana laws which i supported and implemented
positive this is not medical marijuana theres goes as much a further step beyond this is recreational use of marijuana this
positive is much different and so while he would like to use a sympathetic story to back up his point it doesnt work im not
positive against medical marijuana we do it in new jersey but im against the recreational use against marijuana if he wants
positive to change the federal law get congress to pass the law to change it and get a president to sign it no its not but
positive with donald its a good start thats really good no listen this is an issue that that weve gotta talk about and we
positive havent talked about yet 71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service when john kennedy
positive was elected president in 1960 it was 26 percent harvard and dartmouth says that social securitys going to go insolvent
positive in seven to eight years so what i say is very simple we need to save this program for the good people out there who
positive have paid into the system and need it and if that means making sure that folks like donald and many of us on the
positive stage dont get it thats the right thing to do because heres what hillary clinton is going to want to do shes going
positive to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us this government doesnt need
positive more money to make social security solvent we need to be not paying out benefits to people who dont really need it
positive we need to protect the people who social security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and
positive food thats why i put out the proposal and thats the people im trying to i dont think senator rubio is a skeptic of
positive climate change i think what senator rubio said i agree with that in fact we dont need this massive government intervention
positive to deal with the problem look at what we have done in new jersey we have already reached our clean air goals for
positive 2020 and when i was governor i pulled out of the regional cap and trade deal the only state in the northeast that
positive did that and we still reached our goals why because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear we use natural
positive gas we use solar power were the thirdhighest using solar power state you know why because we made all of those things
positive economically feasible i agree with marco we shouldnt be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild leftwing
positive idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate we can contribute to that and be economically sound
positive we have proven we can do that in new jersey nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country
positive if we want to go after this problem i understand no no listen everybody makes a mistake every once in a while jake
positive even george shultz and if thats truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing then with all due respect
positive to the former secretary of state i disagree with him i think the adams family has been shorted in the currency business
positive our country wouldnt be here without john adams and he would not have been able to do it without abigal adams so id
positive put abigail adams on the bill you know ive been called a lot of names by a lot of different people and now i got
positive to get called by names by the secret service i would just say true heart i turned 18 in 1980 and my first vote was
positive for ronald reagan boy am i glad i did it and i think the country is too a christie presidency wont be about me it
positive will be about you tonight you sit at home in your living room frustrated that you play by the rules you pay the taxes
positive you do the hard things to raise your family yet you feel like americas generosity is being taken advantage of that
positive youve been system is being gamed and that youre turning out to fall further and further behind our presidency our
positive presidency will be about ending that about enforcing the law level the playing field for everybody and once again
positive reward those folks who play by the rules and think that justice means more than just the word but it means a way
positive of life and i will tell you this around the world i will not shake hands with i will not meet with and i will not
positive agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements
positive with them it will be an america that be strong and resolute and will once again be able to stick out its chest and
positive say we truly are the greatest nation in the world because we live our lives that way each and every day
