positive well thank you and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the democratic debates im hillary clinton i have
positive been proud and privileged to serve as first lady as a senator from new york and as secretary of state im the granddaughter
positive of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful oneyearold child and every day i think about what we need
positive to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her but for all of our children i have spent a very
positive long time my entire adult life looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead and in
positive particular to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her godgiven potential ive traveled across our country
positive over the last months listening and learning and ive put forward specific plans about how were going to create more
positive goodpaying well actually i have been very consistent over the course of my entire life i have always fought for the
positive same values and principles but like most human beings including those of us who run for office i do absorb new information
positive i do look at whats happening in the world you know take the trade deal i did say when i was secretary of state three
positive years ago that i hoped it would be the gold standard it was just finally negotiated last week and in looking at it
positive it didnt meet my standards my standards for more new good jobs for americans for raising wages for americans and
positive i want to make sure that i can look into the eyes of any middleclass american and say this will help raise your wages
positive and i concluded i could not no i think that like most people that i know i have a range of views but they are rooted
positive in my values and my experience and i dont take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and
positive progressive commitment you know when i left law school my first job was with the childrens defense fund and for all
positive the years since i have been focused on how were going to unstack the deck and how were gonna make it possible for
positive more people to have the experience i had you know to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker
positive a father who was a small business person and now asking the people of america to elect me president im a progressive
positive but im a progressive who likes to get things done and i know how to find common ground and i know how to stand my
positive ground and i have proved that in every position that ive had even dealing with republicans who never had a good word
positive to say about me honestly but we found ways to work together on everything from reforming foster care and adoption
positive to the childrens health insurance program which insures 8 million kids so i have a long history of getting things
positive done rooted in the same values ive always had well let me just followup on that anderson because when i think about
positive capitalism i think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom
positive in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families and i dont think
positive we should confuse what we have to do every so often in america which is save capitalism from itself and i think what
positive senator sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have but we are not denmark
positive i love denmark we are the united states of america and its our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that
positive it doesnt run amok and doesnt cause the kind of inequities were seeing in our economic system but we would be making
positive a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history of the world no not at all
positive i think that we have to look at the fact that we lose 90 people a day from gun violence this has gone on too long
positive and its time the entire country stood up against the nra the majority of our country supports background checks and
positive even the majority of gun owners do senator sanders did vote five times against the brady bill since it was passed
positive more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented he also did vote as he said for this immunity provision
positive i voted against it i was in the senate at the same time it wasnt that complicated to me it was pretty straightforward
positive to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in america everybody else has to be accountable but
positive not the gun manufacturers and we need to stand up and well first of all we got a lot of business done with the russians
positive when medvedev was the president and not putin we got a nuclear arms deal we got the iranian sanctions we got an ability
positive to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in afghanistan theres no doubt that when putin came back
positive in and said he was going to be president that did change the relationship we have to stand up to his bullying and
positive specifically in syria it is important and i applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now
positive with the russians to make it clear that theyve got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict
positive and to provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of syria at the rate they are and
positive i think its important too that the united states make it very clear to putin that its not acceptable for him to be
positive in syria creating more chaos bombing people on behalf of assad and we cant do that if we dont take more of a leadership
positive position which is what im advocating well nobody does nobody does senator sanders well i recall very well being on
positive a debate stage i think about 25 times with then senator obama debating this very issue after the election he asked
positive me to become secretary of state he valued my judgment and i spent a lot of time with him in the situation room going
positive over some very difficult issues you know i i agree completely we dont want american troops on the ground in syria
positive i never said that what i said was we had to put together a coalition in fact something that i worked on before i
positive left the state department to do and yes that it should include arabs people in the region because what i worry about
positive is what will happen with isis gaining more territory having more reach and frankly posing a threat to our friends
positive and neighbors in the region and far beyond so i think while youre talking about the tough decision that president
positive obama had to make about osama bin laden where i was one of his few advisers or putting together that coalition to
positive impose sanctions on iran i think i have a lot of evidence well first of all i well i am in the middle here and lots
positive of things coming from all directions you know i have to say i was very pleased when governor omalley endorsed me
positive for president in 2008 and i enjoyed his strong support in that campaign and i consider him obviously a friend let
positive me say because theres a lot of loose talk going on here we are already flying in syria just as we are flying in iraq
positive the president has made a very tough decision what i believe and why i have advocated that the nofly zone which of
positive course would be in a coalition be put on the table is because im trying to figure out what leverage we have to get
positive russia to the table you know diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution its about how you balance the
positive risks and i think we have an opportunity here and i know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated
positive to get that leverage to try to get the russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward
positive a political diplomatic solution in syria well lets remember what was going on we had a murderous dictator gadhafi
positive who had american blood on his hands as im sure you remember threatening to massacre large numbers of the libyan people
positive we had our closest allies in europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw
positive as a mass genocide in their words and we had the arabs standing by our side saying we want you to help us deal with
positive gadhafi our response which i think was smart power at its best is that the united states will not lead this we will
positive provide essential unique capabilities that we have but the europeans and the arabs had to be first over the line
positive we did not put one single american soldier on the ground in libya and ill say this for the libyan people but let
positive ill get to that but i think its important since i understand senator webbs very strong feelings about this to explain
positive where we were then and to point out that i think president obama made the right decision at the time and the libyan
positive people had a free election the first time since 1951 and you know what they voted for moderates they voted with the
positive hope of democracy because of the arab spring because of a lot of other things there was turmoil to be followed but
positive unless you believe the united states should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous which i do not then
positive when we send them forth there is always the potential for danger and risk i i think it has to be continued threat
positive from the spread of nuclear weapons nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands i know the terrorists are
positive constantly seeking it and thats why we have to stay vigilant but also united around the world to prevent that well
positive ive taken responsibility for it i did say it was a mistake what i did was allowed by the state department but it
positive wasnt the best choice and i have been as transparent as i know to be turning over 55000 pages of my emails asking
positive that they be made public and youre right i am going to be testifying ive been asking to testify for some time and
positive to do it in public which was not originally agreed to but lets just take a minute here and point out that this committee
positive is basically an arm of the republican national committee it is a partisan vehicle as admitted by the house republican
positive majority leader mr mccarthy to drive down my poll numbers big surprise and thats what they have attempted to do i
positive am still standing i am happy to be part of this debate and i intend to keep talking about the issues that matter
positive to the american people you know i believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about
positive like how are we going to make college affordable how are we going to pay down student debt how are we going to get
positive health care for everybody well i never said it wasnt legitimate i said that i have answered all the questions and
positive i will certainly be doing so again before this committee but i think it would be really unfair not to look at the
positive entire picture this committee has spent 45 million of taxpayer money and they said that they were trying to figure
positive out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that something like benghazi wouldnt happen again there were
positive already seven committee reports about what to do so i think its pretty clear what their obvious goal is but ill be
positive there ill answer their questions but tonight i want to talk not about my emails but about what the american people
positive want from the next president of the united states thank you me too me too thank you bernie thank you no well i think
positive that president obama has been a great moral leader on these issues and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed
positive by the republicans at every turn so so what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice i have talked
positive about that at some length including things like body cameras but we also need to be following the recommendations
positive of the commissioner that president obama empanelled on policing there is an agenda there that we need to be following
positive up on similarly we need to tackle mass incarceration and this may be the only bipartisan issue in the congress this
positive year we actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion that we can not keep
positive imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world but i believe that the debate and the discussion has to go
positive further anderson because weve got to do more about the lives of these children thats why i started off by saying
positive we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential that is
positive really hard to do if you dont have early childhood education if you dont have schools that are able to meet the needs
positive of the people or good housing theres a long list we need a new new deal for communities of color well you know both
positive bill and i have been very blessed neither of us came from wealthy families and weve worked really hard our entire
positive lives and i want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and i have had
positive to make the most of their godgiven potential and to have the chances that they should have in america for a good
positive education good job training and then good jobs i have a five point economic plan because this inequality challenge
positive we face we have faced it at other points its absolutely right it hasnt been this bad since the 1920s but if you look
positive at the republicans versus the democrats when it comes to economic policy there is no comparison the economy does
positive better when you have a democrat in the white house and thats why we need to have a democrat in the white house in
positive january 2017 well my plan is more comprehensive and frankly its tougher because of course we have to deal with the
positive problem that the banks are still too big to fail we can never let the american taxpayer and middle class families
positive ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw but we also have to worry about some of the other
positive players aig a big insurance company lehman brothers an investment bank theres this whole area called shadow banking
positive thats where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from so im with both senator sanders and governor
positive omalley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks and the plan that i have put forward would actually empower
positive regulators to break up big banks if we thought they posed a risk but i want to make sure were going to cover everybody
positive not what caused the problem last time but what could cause it next time yeah you know i i respect the passion an
positive intensity i represented wall street as a senator from new york and i went to wall street in december of 2007 before
positive the big crash that we had and i basically said cut it out! quit foreclosing on homes! quit engaging in these kinds
positive of speculative behaviors i took on the bush administration for the same thing so i have thought deeply and long about
positive what were gonna do to do exactly what i think both the senator and the governor want which is to rein in and stop
positive this risk and my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail nobody went to jail after
positive 100 billion in fines were paid and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks but im telling you
positive i will say it tonight if only you look at the big banks you may be missing the forest for the trees so no thats not
positive what that i think doddfrank was a very good start and i think that we have to implement it we have to prevent the
positive republicans from ripping it apart we have to save the consumer financial protection board which is finally beginning
positive to act to protect consumers we have work to do youve got no argument from me but i know if we dont come in with a
positive very tough and comprehensive approach like the plan im recommending were gonna be behind instead of ahead on what
positive the next crisis could be well you know everybody on this stage has changed a position or two weve been around a cumulative
positive quite some period of time you know we know that if you are learning youre gonna change your position i never took
positive a position on keystone until i took a position on keystone but i have been on the forefront of dealing with climate
positive change starting in 2009 when president obama and i crashed a meeting with the chinese and got them to sign up to
positive the first international agreement to combat climate change that theyd ever joined so im not taking a back seat to
positive anybody on my values my principles and the results that i get well let me address college affordability because i
positive have a plan that i think will really zero in on what the problems are first all the 40 million americans who currently
positive have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate that will save thousands of dollars
positive for people who are now struggling under this cumbersome burdensome college debt as a young student in nevada said
positive to me the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it so then we have to make it more affordable
positive how do we make it more affordable my plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free
positive you would not have to borrow money for tuition but i do believe and maybe its because i worked when i went through
positive college i worked when i went through law school i think its important for everybody to have some part of getting
positive this accomplished thats why i call it a compact but yes i would like students to work 10 hours a week well i fully
positive support social security and the most important fight were going to have is defending it against continuing republican
positive efforts to privatize it i want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of social security we have a lot
positive of women on social security particularly widowed and single women who didnt make a lot of money during their careers
positive and they are impoverished and they need more help from the social security system and i will focus i will focus on
positive helping those people who need it the most and of course im going to defend social security im going to look for ways
positive to try to make sure its solvent into the future and we also need to talk about health care at some time because we
positive agree on the goals we just disagree on the means well first of all i want to make sure every child gets health care
positive thats why i helped to create the childrens health insurance program and i want to support states that are expanding
positive health care and including undocumented children and others i want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be
positive able to buy in to the exchanges under the affordable care act i think to go beyond that as i understand what governor
positive omalley has recommended so that they would get the same subsidies i think that is it raises so many issues it would
positive be very difficult to administer it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform when we finally do get
positive to it i want to follow up because i think underneath juan carlos important questions there is such a difference between
positive everything youre hearing here on this stage and what we hear from the republicans demonize hardworking immigrants
positive who have insulted them you know i came to las vegas in i think may early may met with a group of dreamers i wish
positive everybody in america could meet with this young people to hear their stories to know their incredible talent their
positive determination and thats why i would go further than even the executive orders that president obama has signed when
positive im president my plan would support any state that takes that position and would work with those states and encourage
positive more states to do the same thing if their states agree then we want more states to do the same thing no i dont i
positive think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 911 to put in place the security that we needed
positive and it is true that it did require that there be a process what happened however is that the bush administration
positive began to chip away at that process and i began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other
positive behavior that they engaged in we always have to keep the balance of civil liberties privacy and security its not
positive easy in a democracy but we have to keep it in mind he broke the laws of the united states he could have been a whistleblower
positive he could have gotten all of the protections of being a whistleblower he could have raised all the issues that he
positive has raised and i think there would have been a positive response to that in addition in addition he stole very important
positive information that has unfortunately fallen into a lot of the wrong hands so i dont think he should be brought home
positive without facing the music well i think thats pretty obvious i think being the first woman president would be quite
positive a change from the presidents weve had up until this point including president obama well theres a lot that i would
positive like to do to build on the successes of president obama but also as im laying out to go beyond and thats in my economic
positive plans how i would deal with the prescription drug companies how i would deal with college how i would deal with a
positive full range of issues that ive been talking about throughout this campaign to go further well thank you you know it
positive does take me a little longer thats all i can say well i cant think of anything more of an outsider than electing
positive the first woman president but im not just running because i would be the first woman president im running because
positive i have a lifetime of experience in getting results and fighting for people fighting for kids for women for families
positive fighting to even the odds and i know what it takes to get things done i know how to find common ground and i know
positive how to stand my ground and i think were going to need both of those in washington to get anything that were talking
positive about up here accomplished so im very happy that i have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a
positive lifetime to bring together to offer the american people well i would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last
positive name i would ask them to listen to what im proposing look at what ive accomplished in the senate as secretary of
positive of state and then draw your own conclusion i certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name
positive is clinton im campaigning because i think i have the right combination of what the country needs at this point and
positive i think i can take the fight to the republicans because we cannot afford a republican to succeed barack obama as
positive president of the united states well that thats exactly what ive been doing when we met in copenhagen in 2009 and
positive literally president obama and i were hunting for the chinese going throughout this huge convention center because
positive we knew we had to get them to agree to something because there will be no effective efforts against climate change
positive unless china and india join with the rest of the world they told us theyd left for the airport we found out they
positive were having a secret meeting we marched up we broke in we said weve been looking all over for you lets sit down and
positive talk about what we need to do and we did come up with the first international agreement that china has signed thanks
positive to president obamas leadership its now gone much further and i do think that the bilateral agreement that president
positive obama made with the chinese was significant now it needs to go further and there will be an international meeting
positive at the end of this year and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered
positive there mmhmm well im surprised she says that because california has had a paid leave program for a number of years
positive and its well but all well on a state level a state as big as many countries in the world and it has not had the ill
positive effects that the republicans are always saying it will have and i think this is this is typical republican scare
positive tactics we can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses i remember as a young
positive mother you know having a baby wake up who was sick and im supposed to be in court because i was practicing law i
positive know what its like and i think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face particularly
positive working moms i see my good friend senator gillibrand in the front row shes been a champion of this we need to get
positive a consensus through this campaign which is why im talking about it everywhere i go and we need to join the rest of
positive the advanced world in having it well look you know when people say that its always the republicans or their sympathizers
positive who say you cant have paid leave you cant provide health care they dont mind having big government to interfere with
positive a womans right to choose and to try to take down planned parenthood theyre fine with big government when it comes
positive to that im sick of it you know we can do these things we should not be paralyzed we should not be paralyzed by the
positive republicans and their constant refrain big government this big government that that except for what they want to
positive impose on the american people i know we can afford it because were going to make the wealthy pay for it that is the
positive way to get it done no i think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana
positive to find out a lot more than we know today i do support the use of medical marijuana and i think even there we need
positive to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how were going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides
positive relief so i think were just at the beginning but i agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning
positive people who use marijuana therefore we need more states cities and the federal government to begin to address this
positive so that we dont have this terrible result that senator sanders was talking about where we have a huge population
positive in our prisons for nonviolent lowlevel offenses that are primarily due to marijuana well in addition to the nra the
positive health insurance companies the drug companies the iranians probably the republicans thank you very much anderson
positive and thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight i think what you did see is that in this debate we tried to deal
positive with some of the very tough issues facing our country thats in stark contrast to the republicans who are currently
positive running for president what you have to ask yourself
