positive im ted cruz i am the son of an irishitalian mom and a cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to america
positive seeking freedom im a husband to my best friend heidi whos here tonight im a dad to two little girls who are the loves
positive of my life caroline and catherine if youre fed up with washington if youre looking for someone to stand up to career
positive politicians in both parties im the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again and if we stand together
positive we can bring america back well let me tell you jake the single biggest national security threat facing america right
positive now is the threat of a nuclear iran weve seen six and a half years of president obama leading from behind weakness
positive is provocative and this iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic this deal on its face will send over
positive 100 billion to the ayatollah khamenei making the obama administration the worlds leading financier of radical islamic
positive terrorism this deal abandons four american hostages in iran and this deal will only accelerate irans acquiring nuclear
positive weapons youd better believe it if i am elected president on the very first day in office i will rip to shreds this
positive catastrophic iranian nuclear deal well lets be clear when it comes to experience what president obama wants to do
positive is hes run to the united nations and he wants to use the united nations to bind the united states and take away our
positive sovereignty well i spent five and a half years as a solicitor general of texas the lead lawyer for the state in front
positive of the us supreme court and i went in front of the supreme court and took on the world court of the united nations
positive in a case called medellin v texas and we won a historic victory saying the world court and the un has no power to
positive bind the united states and no president of the united states republican or democrat has the authority to give away
positive our sovereignty and so if theres anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with iran theyre giving
positive up the core responsibility of commander in chief and as president i would never do that jake jake jake jake there
positive is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here and ive listened to several folks saying well gosh
positive if they cheat well act we wont know under this agreement there are several facilities in iran they designate as military
positive facilities that are off limit all together beyond that the other facilities we give them 24 days notice before inspecting
positive them that is designed to allow them to hide the evidence and most astonishingly this agreement trusts the iranians
positive to inspect themselves that makes no sense whatsoever and let me know president obama is violating federal law by
positive not handing over the side deals and we ought to see the united states congress stand up together and say hand over
positive this treaty and protect this country well let me tell you dana number one im proud to stand for life these planned
positive parenthood videos are horrifying i would encourage every american to watch the videos see seeing your planned parenthood
positive officials callously heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings and then ask yourself are these
positive my values these are horrifying on these videos planned parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies
positive it is a felony with ten years jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit thats what these videos
positive show planned parenthood doing absolutely we shouldnt be sending 500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing
positive criminal enterprise and ill tell you the fact that republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion
positive by preemptively surrendering to barack obama and saying well give in because obama threatens a veto you know obamas
positive committed to his principles his liberal principles he will fight for them he says i will veto any budget that doesnt
positive fund planned parenthood and republicans surrender we need to stop surrendering and start standing for our principles
positive well jake you know im im very glad that donald trumps being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally
positive to talk about illegal immigration i think thats very important i like and respect ben carson ill let him talk about
positive his own plans but i will say well dana ive known john roberts for 20 years hes amazingly talented lawyer but yes
positive it was a mistake when he was appointed to the supreme court hes a good enough lawyer that he knows in these obamacare
positive cases he changed the statute he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of americans for a
positive political outcome and you know were frustrated as conservatives we keep winning elections and then we dont get the
positive outcome we want and let me focus on two moments in time number one in 1990 in one room was david souter and in another
positive room was edith jones the rock ribbed conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals george herbert walker bush
positive appointed david souter and then in 2005 in one room was john roberts in another room was my former boss mike luttig
positive the rock ribbed conservative on the fourth circuit court of appeals george w bush appointed john roberts and let
positive me give you the consequences of that if instead the president bush had appointed edith jones and mike luttig which
positive is who i would have appointed obamacare would have been struck down three years ago and the marriage laws of all
positive 50 states would be on the books these matter and i fought to defend the constitution my whole life and i will as
positive president as well it is true that after george w bush nominated john roberts i supported his confirmation that was
positive a mistake and i regret that i wouldnt have nominated john roberts and indeed governor bush pointed out why it wasnt
positive that the president bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court its that it was the easier choice both david souter
positive and john roberts they didnt have a long paper trail if you had nominated edith jones or mike ludig you would have
positive had a bloody fight and they werent willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the
positive court i have spent my entire life starting from clerking for chief justice william rehnquist on the united states
positive supreme court one of the most principled jurists we have an outofcontrol court and i give you my word if im elected
positive president every single supreme court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings
positive imposing their liberal policies on millions of americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves i i am not and
positive and you mentioned that the us supreme court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms i was proud
positive to lead 31 states before the us supreme court defending the second amendment and we won that landmark victory and
positive indeed just a couple of years ago when harry reid and barack obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of
positive millions of americans i was proud to lead the fight in the united states senate to protect our right to keep and
positive bear arms and for that reason i was honored to be endorsed by gun owners of america as the strongest supporter of
positive the second amendment on this stage today and i will fight every day to defend the bill of rights well i wouldnt change
positive the 10 bill id change the 20 id take jackson off and id leave alexander hamilton right where he is as one of our
positive founding fathers and i very much agree with marco that it should be rosa parks she was a principled pioneer that
positive helped change this country helped remedy racial injustice and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate
positive you know as a cuban i might go with cohiba and ill tell you id go with for heidi angel because she is my angel ronald
positive reagan believed in america if im elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand
positive with them the bust of winston churchill will be back in the oval office and the american embassy in israel will be
positive in jerusalem enemies across this world will know the united states is not to be trifled with isis will be defeated
positive we will have a president willing to utter the words radical islamic terrorism and the ayatollah khamenei will understand
positive that he will never ever ever acquire nuclear weapons here at home well reignite the promise of america young people
positive coming out of school with student loans up to their eyeballs will find instead of no jobs two three four five job
positive opportunities how will that happen through tax reform well pass a simple flat tax and abolish the irs and through
positive regulatory reform we will repeal every word of obamacare you want to know what ill do as president it is real simple
positive well kill the terrorists well repeal obamacare and we will defend the constitution every single word of it
