republican im ted cruz i am the son of an irishitalian mom and a cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to america
republican seeking freedom im a husband to my best friend heidi whos here tonight im a dad to two little girls who are the loves
republican of my life caroline and catherine if youre fed up with washington if youre looking for someone to stand up to career
republican politicians in both parties im the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again and if we stand together
republican we can bring america back well let me tell you jake the single biggest national security threat facing america right
republican now is the threat of a nuclear iran weve seen six and a half years of president obama leading from behind weakness
republican is provocative and this iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic this deal on its face will send over
republican 100 billion to the ayatollah khamenei making the obama administration the worlds leading financier of radical islamic
republican terrorism this deal abandons four american hostages in iran and this deal will only accelerate irans acquiring nuclear
republican weapons youd better believe it if i am elected president on the very first day in office i will rip to shreds this
republican catastrophic iranian nuclear deal well lets be clear when it comes to experience what president obama wants to do
republican is hes run to the united nations and he wants to use the united nations to bind the united states and take away our
republican sovereignty well i spent five and a half years as a solicitor general of texas the lead lawyer for the state in front
republican of the us supreme court and i went in front of the supreme court and took on the world court of the united nations
republican in a case called medellin v texas and we won a historic victory saying the world court and the un has no power to
republican bind the united states and no president of the united states republican or democrat has the authority to give away
republican our sovereignty and so if theres anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with iran theyre giving
republican up the core responsibility of commander in chief and as president i would never do that jake jake jake jake there
republican is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here and ive listened to several folks saying well gosh
republican if they cheat well act we wont know under this agreement there are several facilities in iran they designate as military
republican facilities that are off limit all together beyond that the other facilities we give them 24 days notice before inspecting
republican them that is designed to allow them to hide the evidence and most astonishingly this agreement trusts the iranians
republican to inspect themselves that makes no sense whatsoever and let me know president obama is violating federal law by
republican not handing over the side deals and we ought to see the united states congress stand up together and say hand over
republican this treaty and protect this country well let me tell you dana number one im proud to stand for life these planned
republican parenthood videos are horrifying i would encourage every american to watch the videos see seeing your planned parenthood
republican officials callously heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings and then ask yourself are these
republican my values these are horrifying on these videos planned parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies
republican it is a felony with ten years jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit thats what these videos
republican show planned parenthood doing absolutely we shouldnt be sending 500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing
republican criminal enterprise and ill tell you the fact that republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion
republican by preemptively surrendering to barack obama and saying well give in because obama threatens a veto you know obamas
republican committed to his principles his liberal principles he will fight for them he says i will veto any budget that doesnt
republican fund planned parenthood and republicans surrender we need to stop surrendering and start standing for our principles
republican well jake you know im im very glad that donald trumps being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally
republican to talk about illegal immigration i think thats very important i like and respect ben carson ill let him talk about
republican his own plans but i will say well dana ive known john roberts for 20 years hes amazingly talented lawyer but yes
republican it was a mistake when he was appointed to the supreme court hes a good enough lawyer that he knows in these obamacare
republican cases he changed the statute he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of americans for a
republican political outcome and you know were frustrated as conservatives we keep winning elections and then we dont get the
republican outcome we want and let me focus on two moments in time number one in 1990 in one room was david souter and in another
republican room was edith jones the rock ribbed conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals george herbert walker bush
republican appointed david souter and then in 2005 in one room was john roberts in another room was my former boss mike luttig
republican the rock ribbed conservative on the fourth circuit court of appeals george w bush appointed john roberts and let
republican me give you the consequences of that if instead the president bush had appointed edith jones and mike luttig which
republican is who i would have appointed obamacare would have been struck down three years ago and the marriage laws of all
republican 50 states would be on the books these matter and i fought to defend the constitution my whole life and i will as
republican president as well it is true that after george w bush nominated john roberts i supported his confirmation that was
republican a mistake and i regret that i wouldnt have nominated john roberts and indeed governor bush pointed out why it wasnt
republican that the president bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court its that it was the easier choice both david souter
republican and john roberts they didnt have a long paper trail if you had nominated edith jones or mike ludig you would have
republican had a bloody fight and they werent willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the
republican court i have spent my entire life starting from clerking for chief justice william rehnquist on the united states
republican supreme court one of the most principled jurists we have an outofcontrol court and i give you my word if im elected
republican president every single supreme court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings
republican imposing their liberal policies on millions of americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves i i am not and
republican and you mentioned that the us supreme court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms i was proud
republican to lead 31 states before the us supreme court defending the second amendment and we won that landmark victory and
republican indeed just a couple of years ago when harry reid and barack obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of
republican millions of americans i was proud to lead the fight in the united states senate to protect our right to keep and
republican bear arms and for that reason i was honored to be endorsed by gun owners of america as the strongest supporter of
republican the second amendment on this stage today and i will fight every day to defend the bill of rights well i wouldnt change
republican the 10 bill id change the 20 id take jackson off and id leave alexander hamilton right where he is as one of our
republican founding fathers and i very much agree with marco that it should be rosa parks she was a principled pioneer that
republican helped change this country helped remedy racial injustice and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate
republican you know as a cuban i might go with cohiba and ill tell you id go with for heidi angel because she is my angel ronald
republican reagan believed in america if im elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand
republican with them the bust of winston churchill will be back in the oval office and the american embassy in israel will be
republican in jerusalem enemies across this world will know the united states is not to be trifled with isis will be defeated
republican we will have a president willing to utter the words radical islamic terrorism and the ayatollah khamenei will understand
republican that he will never ever ever acquire nuclear weapons here at home well reignite the promise of america young people
republican coming out of school with student loans up to their eyeballs will find instead of no jobs two three four five job
republican opportunities how will that happen through tax reform well pass a simple flat tax and abolish the irs and through
republican regulatory reform we will repeal every word of obamacare you want to know what ill do as president it is real simple
republican well kill the terrorists well repeal obamacare and we will defend the constitution every single word of it
