republican good evening my story from secretary to ceo is only possible in this nation and proves that everyone of us has potential
republican my husband frank of 30 years started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop we have come to a
republican pivotal point in our nations history where this nations possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government
republican grown so big so powerful so inept so corrupt and a political class that refuses to do anything about it i am prepared
republican to lead the resurgence of this great nation you know i think mr trump is a wonderful entertainer hes been terrific
republican at that business i also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability
republican judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure all of us will be revealed
republican over time and under pressure i look forward to a long race thats not for me to answer it is for the voters of this
republican country to answer and i have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the united states
republican of america jake ill tell you ill tell you why people are supporting outsiders its because you know what happens if
republican someones been in the system their whole life they dont know how broken the system is a fish swims in water it doesnt
republican know its water its not that politicians are bad people its that theyve been in that system forever the truth is 75
republican percent of the american people think the government is corrupt 82 percent of the american people think these problems
republican that have festered for 50 years in some cases 25 years in other cases the borders been insecure for 25 years 307000
republican veterans have died waiting for health care these things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the
republican status quo you know what a leader does they challenge the status quo they solve problems that have festered for a
republican long time and they produce results that is what my whole life has been about people know this is about far more than
republican replacing a d with an r this is about changing the system having having met vladimir putin if i may having met vladimir
republican putin i wouldnt talk to him at all weve talked way too much to him what i would do immediately is begin rebuilding
republican the sixth fleet i would begin rebuilding the missile defense program in poland i would conduct regular aggressive
republican military exercises in the baltic states id probably send a few thousand more troops into germany vladimir putin would
republican get the message by the way the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know general suleimanis
republican name is because russia is in syria right now because the head of the quds force traveled to russia and talked vladimir
republican putin into aligning themselves with iran and syria to prop up bashar al assad russia is a bad actor but vladimir
republican putin is someone we should not talk to because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the
republican other side and we have all of that within our control we could rebuild the sixth fleet i will we havent we could
republican rebuild the missile defense program we havent i will we could also to senator rubios point give the egyptians what
republican theyve asked for which is intelligence we could give the jordanians what theyve asked for bombs and materiel we have
republican not supplied it i will we could arm the kurds theyve been asking us for three years all of this is within our control
republican jake jake and then itll be my turn jake jake dana id like to dana i would like to link these two issues both of which
republican are incredibly important iran and planned parenthood one has something to do with the defense of the security of
republican this nation the other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation you have not heard a plan
republican about iran from any politician up here here is my plan on day one in the oval office i will make two phone calls
republican the first to my good friend to bibi netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state of israel the second to
republican the supreme leader to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime
republican anywhere inspections by our people not his we the united states of america will make it as difficult as possible
republican and move money around the global financial system we can do that we dont need anyones cooperation to do it and every
republican ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the united states in america is back in the leadership
republican business which is how we must stand with our allies as regards planned parenthood anyone who has watched this videotape
republican i dare hillary clinton barack obama to watch these tapes watch a fully formed fetus on the table its heart beating
republican its legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain this is about the character of
republican our nation and if we will not stand up in and force president obama to veto this bill shame on us you know its interesting
republican to me mr trump said that he heard mr bush very clearly and what mr bush said i think women all over this country
republican heard very clearly what mr trump said dana with all being said to mr trump immigration did not come up in 2016 because
republican mr trump brought it up we talked about it in 2012 we talked about it in 2008 we talked about it in 2004 we have been
republican talking about it for 25 years this is why people are tired of politicians first let me say we have just spent a good
republican bit of time discussing as republicans how to solve this problem i would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic
republican question why have democrats not solved this problem president obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration
republican problem he entered washington with majorities in the house and the senate he could have chosen to do anything to
republican solve this pro this problem instead he chose to do nothing why because the democrats dont want this issue solved
republican they want it to be an issue that they can use as to birthright citizenship the truth is you cant just wave your hands
republican and say the 14th amendment is gonna go away it will take an extremely arduous vote in congress followed by twothirds
republican of the states and if that doesnt work to amend the constitution then it is a long arduous process in court and meanwhile
republican what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years with all due respect mr trump weve been talking about
republican illegal immigration for 25 years san francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989 there are 300 of them and meanwhile
republican what has happened nothing the border remains insecure the legal immigration system remains broken look we know what
republican it takes to secure a border weve heard a lot of great ideas here money manpower technology mostly apparently leadership
republican the kind of leadership that understands how to get results but you you would stipulate mr trump but not everyone
republican agrees with you ok i led hewlett packard through a very difficult time the worst technology recession in 25 years
republican the nasdaq stock index fell 80 percent it took 15 years for the stock index to recover we had very strong competitors
republican who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process despite those difficult times we doubled
republican the size of the company we quadrupled its topline growth rate we quadrupled its cash flow we tripled its rate of
republican innovation yes we had to make tough choices and in doing so we saved 80000 jobs went on to grow to 160000 jobs and
republican now hewlett packard is almost 300000 jobs we went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every
republican market segment we must lead in this nation again and some tough calls are going to be required but as for the firing
republican i have been very honest about this from the day it happened when you challenge the status quo you make enemies i
republican made a few steve jobs told me that when he called me the day i was fired to say hey been there done that twice its
republican also true that the man that led my firing tom perkins just took out a fullpage ad in the new york times to say he
republican was wrong i was right i was a terrific ceo the board was dysfunctional and he thinks i will make a magnificent president
republican of the united states you know jeffrey sonnenfeld is a wellknown clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the
republican moment that i arrived at hewlett packard but honestly mr trump i find it quite rich that you would talk about this
republican you know there are a lot of us americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest
republican on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other peoples money that is in fact precisely
republican the way you ran your casinos you ran up mountains of debt as well as losses using other peoples money and you were
republican forced to file for bankruptcy not once not twice four times a record four times why should we trust you to manage
republican the finances of this nation any differently than you managed the finances of your casinos well well mr trump a track
republican record of leadership is not a game it is the issue in this election well i thought we had been hearing quite a bit
republican about govenor christies record as governor actually i think track records are very important i completely agree that
republican whats at stake here is the future of this nation and the future of every american but i do think that a track record
republican of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership and lets talk about what leadership is
republican its not about braggadocio it is about challenging the status quo solving problems producing results and the highest
republican calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others problems have festered in washington for too long and the
republican potential of this nation is being crushed you see governor christie people spend time talking about their track records
republican and mr trump and i have every right to do the same and mrs clinton has to defend her track record her track record
republican of lying about benghazi of lying about her e mails about lying about her servers she does not have a track record
republican of accomplishment like mrs clinton i too have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around the globe but unlike
republican mrs clinton i know flying is an activity not an accomplishment mrs clinton if you want to stump a democrat ask them
republican to name a accomplishment of mrs clintons we just spent we just spent the last 10 minutes jake since everyone has
republican gotten to weigh in on this military issue id like to be able to do the same we have spent probably 12 minutes talking
republican about the past lets talk about the future we need the strongest military on the face of the planet and everyone has
republican to know it and specifically what that means is we need about 50 army brigades we need about 36 marine battalions
republican we need somewhere between 300 and 350 naval ships we need to upgrade every leg of the nuclear triad we need to reform
republican the department of defense we need as well to invest in our military technology and we need to care for our veterans
republican so 307000 arent dying waiting for health care jake may i just say jake jake i very much hope i am the only person
republican on this stage who can say this but i know there are millions of americans out there who will say the same thing my
republican husband frank and i buried a child to drug addiction so we must invest more in the treatment of drugs i agree with
republican senator paul i agree with states rights but we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just
republican like having a beer its not and the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that jeb
republican bush smoked 40 years ago we do sorry barbara we do need we do need criminal justice reform we have the highest incarceration
republican rates in the world twothirds of the people in our prisons are there for nonviolent offenses mostly drug related its
republican clearly not working but we need to tell young people the truth drug addiction is an epidemic and it is taking too
republican many of our young people i know this sadly from personal experience i wouldnt change the 10 bill or the 20 bill i
republican think honestly its a gesture i dont think it helps to change our history what i would think is that we ought to recognize
republican that women are not a special interest group women are the majority of this nation we are half the potential of this
republican nation and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses secretariat
republican i think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by lady liberty and lady justice lady liberty stands tall
republican and strong she is cleareyed and resolute she doesnt shield her eyes from the realities of the world but she faces
republican outward into the world nevertheless as we always must and she holds her torch high because she knows she is a beacon
republican of hope in a very troubled world and lady justice lady justice holds a sword by her side because she is a fighter
republican a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great she holds a scale in her other hand
republican and with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of god and so all of us must be equal in the eyes of
republican the law and the government powerful and powerless alike and she wears a blindfold and with that blindfold she is
republican saying to us that it must be true it can be true that in this country in this century it doesnt matter who you are
republican it doesnt matter what you look like it doesnt matter how you start it doesnt matter your circumstances here in this
republican nation every americans life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their godgiven gifts one nation
republican under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all
