positive im mike huckabee im delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow republicans none of us are a selfprofessed
positive socialist none of us on this state are under investigation by the fbi because we destroyed government records or
positive because we leaked secrets i know that there are some in the wallstreettowashington axis of power who speak of all
positive of us contemptuously but im here to say that i think we are in fact the a team we have some remarkable people and
positive in fact not only are we the a team we even have our own mr t who doesnt mind saying about others youre a fool and
positive im delighted to be here with all of these guys and would put any of them in an administration that i led thank you
positive very much i would certainly love to get in on this because i think the single ive been patiently waiting and im going
positive to just say this about iran because i think it is incredibly important this is really about the survival of western
positive civilization this is not just a little conflict with a middle eastern country that weve just now given over 100 billion
positive to the equivalent in us terms is 5 trillion this threatens israel immediately this threatens the entire middle east
positive but it threatens the united states of america and we cant treat a nuclear iranian government as if it is just some
positive government that would like to have power this is a government for 36 years has killed americans they kidnapped americans
positive they have maimed americans they have sponsored terrorist groups hamas and hezbollah and they threaten the very essence
positive of western civilization to give them this agreement that the president treats like the magna carta but iranians treat
positive it like its toilet paper and we must simply make it very clear that the next president one of us on this stage will
positive absolutely not honor that agreement and will destroy it and will be tough with iran because otherwise we put every
positive person in this world in a very dangerous place no i dont think hes on the wrong side of such an issue jeb is a friend
positive im not up here to fight with jeb or to fight with anybody else but i am here to fight for somebody who is a county
positive clerk elected under the kentucky constitution that 75 percent of the people of that state had voted for that said
positive that marriage was between a man and a woman the supreme court in a very very divided decision decided out of thin
positive air that they were just going to redefine marriage its a decision that the other justices in dissent said they didnt
positive have and there wasnt a constitutional shred of capacity for them to do it i thought that everybody here passed ninthgrade
positive civics the courts cannot legislate thats what roberts said but heck its what we learned in civics the courts cant
positive make a law they can interpret one they can review one they cant implement it they cant force it but heres what no
positive no let me finish this one thought jake i havent gotten that much time so im going to take just what little i can
positive here we made accommodation to the fort hood shooter to let him grow a beard we made accommodations to the detainees
positive at gitmo ive been to gitmo and ive seen the accommodations that we made to the muslim detainees who killed americans
positive youre telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected democrat county clerk from rowan county kentucky
positive what else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who
positive might be a fort hood shooter or a detainee at gitmo i have a different idea i think we ought to get rid of all the
positive taxes on people who produce why should we penalize productivity and its why im an unabashed supporter of the fair
positive tax which would be a tax on our consumption rather than a tax on our productivity in other words youre not going
positive to tax anybody for what they earn whether its worker whose working by the hour or whether its a hedge fund manager
positive if they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs we need some jobs and i think the fair tax
positive makes more sense now jake ive been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about
positive im the only one who has done this the only one who has done that ive done great things weve all done great things
positive or we wouldnt be on this stage but it occurs to me as were sitting here in the reagan library that most of us would
positive like to pay tribute to a guy who when he got elected didnt get elected telling everybody how great he was he got
positive elected telling everybody how great the american people were and he empowered them to live their dreams which is
positive what id love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a
positive gut punch right now you dont want me operating on you i assure you just today just today there was a new report that
positive 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials so
positive that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face i love the idea of a good intellectual capacity
positive to deal with our enemies but the fact is if you dont have good intelligence that is reliable and honest you wont
positive have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions the next president is primarily elected not just to know
positive things but to know what to do with the things that he knows and the most dangerous person in any room is the person
positive who doesnt know what he doesnt know and the reason barack obama has been dangerous to this country and we better
positive elect someone who had some executive experience is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in
positive the office who doesnt know what he does not know you better believe i will because im tired of liberals always having
positive a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we dont well let me tell you what mine would be number one
positive id ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue id want to know the answer
positive to that id want to know do you believe in the first amendment do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental
positive liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based and id want to know do you really believe in
positive the second amendment do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family
positive and to protect our country and do you believe in the fifth and the 14th amendment do you believe that a person before
positive theyre deprived of life and liberty should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law because if
positive you do youre going to do more than defund planned parenthood one final thing id make darn sure that we absolutely
positive believe the 10th amendment every governor on this stage would share this much with you every one of us our biggest
positive fight wasnt always with the legislature or even with the democrats my gosh half the time it was with the federal
positive government who apparently never understood that if its not reserved in the constitution then the 10th amendment says
positive its left to the states but somebody forgot to send a memo to washington jake jake i think we need to remember that
positive there are maybe some controversies about autism but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving
positive the medical costs in this country and i would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer
positive heart disease diabetes and alzheimers because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost
positive john kennedy said well go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back and we did it i grew up in the 50s i remember
positive the polio vaccine we saved billions of dollars since that time because we havent had to treat for polio why doesnt
positive this country focus on cures rather than treatment why dont we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the
positive cure for cancer for heart disease for diabetes and for alzheimers a disease alone that will cost us 11 trillion by
positive the year 2050 we change the economy and the country thats an easy one id put my wife on there ive been married to
positive her 41 years shes fought cancer and lived through it shes raised three kids five great grandkids and shes put up
positive with me i mean who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife and that way she could spend her own money
positive with her face id go with duck hunter at the end of my presidency i would like to believe that the world would be
positive a safe place and there wouldnt be the threats not only to the us but to israel and our allies because we would have
positive the most incredible welltrained wellequipped well prepared military in the history of mankind and they would know
positive that the commanderinchief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary but people wouldnt
positive bully us anymore because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction domestically we would
positive be operating under a tax system that eliminated the irs people wouldnt be punished for their work and for what they
positive produced and life would be really deemed precious abortion would be no more it would be as much of a scourge in our
positive past as slavery is and we would have a peaceful country where people respected each other and people respected law
positive enforcement and we would focus on cures and we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without but
positive safe from the enemies within and it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids
