republican im mike huckabee im delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow republicans none of us are a selfprofessed
republican socialist none of us on this state are under investigation by the fbi because we destroyed government records or
republican because we leaked secrets i know that there are some in the wallstreettowashington axis of power who speak of all
republican of us contemptuously but im here to say that i think we are in fact the a team we have some remarkable people and
republican in fact not only are we the a team we even have our own mr t who doesnt mind saying about others youre a fool and
republican im delighted to be here with all of these guys and would put any of them in an administration that i led thank you
republican very much i would certainly love to get in on this because i think the single ive been patiently waiting and im going
republican to just say this about iran because i think it is incredibly important this is really about the survival of western
republican civilization this is not just a little conflict with a middle eastern country that weve just now given over 100 billion
republican to the equivalent in us terms is 5 trillion this threatens israel immediately this threatens the entire middle east
republican but it threatens the united states of america and we cant treat a nuclear iranian government as if it is just some
republican government that would like to have power this is a government for 36 years has killed americans they kidnapped americans
republican they have maimed americans they have sponsored terrorist groups hamas and hezbollah and they threaten the very essence
republican of western civilization to give them this agreement that the president treats like the magna carta but iranians treat
republican it like its toilet paper and we must simply make it very clear that the next president one of us on this stage will
republican absolutely not honor that agreement and will destroy it and will be tough with iran because otherwise we put every
republican person in this world in a very dangerous place no i dont think hes on the wrong side of such an issue jeb is a friend
republican im not up here to fight with jeb or to fight with anybody else but i am here to fight for somebody who is a county
republican clerk elected under the kentucky constitution that 75 percent of the people of that state had voted for that said
republican that marriage was between a man and a woman the supreme court in a very very divided decision decided out of thin
republican air that they were just going to redefine marriage its a decision that the other justices in dissent said they didnt
republican have and there wasnt a constitutional shred of capacity for them to do it i thought that everybody here passed ninthgrade
republican civics the courts cannot legislate thats what roberts said but heck its what we learned in civics the courts cant
republican make a law they can interpret one they can review one they cant implement it they cant force it but heres what no
republican no let me finish this one thought jake i havent gotten that much time so im going to take just what little i can
republican here we made accommodation to the fort hood shooter to let him grow a beard we made accommodations to the detainees
republican at gitmo ive been to gitmo and ive seen the accommodations that we made to the muslim detainees who killed americans
republican youre telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected democrat county clerk from rowan county kentucky
republican what else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who
republican might be a fort hood shooter or a detainee at gitmo i have a different idea i think we ought to get rid of all the
republican taxes on people who produce why should we penalize productivity and its why im an unabashed supporter of the fair
republican tax which would be a tax on our consumption rather than a tax on our productivity in other words youre not going
republican to tax anybody for what they earn whether its worker whose working by the hour or whether its a hedge fund manager
republican if they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs we need some jobs and i think the fair tax
republican makes more sense now jake ive been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about
republican im the only one who has done this the only one who has done that ive done great things weve all done great things
republican or we wouldnt be on this stage but it occurs to me as were sitting here in the reagan library that most of us would
republican like to pay tribute to a guy who when he got elected didnt get elected telling everybody how great he was he got
republican elected telling everybody how great the american people were and he empowered them to live their dreams which is
republican what id love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a
republican gut punch right now you dont want me operating on you i assure you just today just today there was a new report that
republican 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials so
republican that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face i love the idea of a good intellectual capacity
republican to deal with our enemies but the fact is if you dont have good intelligence that is reliable and honest you wont
republican have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions the next president is primarily elected not just to know
republican things but to know what to do with the things that he knows and the most dangerous person in any room is the person
republican who doesnt know what he doesnt know and the reason barack obama has been dangerous to this country and we better
republican elect someone who had some executive experience is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in
republican the office who doesnt know what he does not know you better believe i will because im tired of liberals always having
republican a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we dont well let me tell you what mine would be number one
republican id ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue id want to know the answer
republican to that id want to know do you believe in the first amendment do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental
republican liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based and id want to know do you really believe in
republican the second amendment do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family
republican and to protect our country and do you believe in the fifth and the 14th amendment do you believe that a person before
republican theyre deprived of life and liberty should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law because if
republican you do youre going to do more than defund planned parenthood one final thing id make darn sure that we absolutely
republican believe the 10th amendment every governor on this stage would share this much with you every one of us our biggest
republican fight wasnt always with the legislature or even with the democrats my gosh half the time it was with the federal
republican government who apparently never understood that if its not reserved in the constitution then the 10th amendment says
republican its left to the states but somebody forgot to send a memo to washington jake jake i think we need to remember that
republican there are maybe some controversies about autism but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving
republican the medical costs in this country and i would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer
republican heart disease diabetes and alzheimers because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost
republican john kennedy said well go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back and we did it i grew up in the 50s i remember
republican the polio vaccine we saved billions of dollars since that time because we havent had to treat for polio why doesnt
republican this country focus on cures rather than treatment why dont we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the
republican cure for cancer for heart disease for diabetes and for alzheimers a disease alone that will cost us 11 trillion by
republican the year 2050 we change the economy and the country thats an easy one id put my wife on there ive been married to
republican her 41 years shes fought cancer and lived through it shes raised three kids five great grandkids and shes put up
republican with me i mean who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife and that way she could spend her own money
republican with her face id go with duck hunter at the end of my presidency i would like to believe that the world would be
republican a safe place and there wouldnt be the threats not only to the us but to israel and our allies because we would have
republican the most incredible welltrained wellequipped well prepared military in the history of mankind and they would know
republican that the commanderinchief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary but people wouldnt
republican bully us anymore because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction domestically we would
republican be operating under a tax system that eliminated the irs people wouldnt be punished for their work and for what they
republican produced and life would be really deemed precious abortion would be no more it would be as much of a scourge in our
republican past as slavery is and we would have a peaceful country where people respected each other and people respected law
republican enforcement and we would focus on cures and we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without but
republican safe from the enemies within and it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids
