republican hello im john kasich the governor of ohio emma and reese my children and karen love ya girls thanks for watching
republican tonight by the way i think i actually flew on this plane with ronald reagan when i was a congressman and his goals
republican and mine really much are pretty much the same lift americans unify give hope grow america and restore it is to that
republican great shining city on a hill yes he was a great one and i learned much from watching him the most important thing
republican hope to americans unify lift everyone in america jake jake listen you know i if i were sitting at home and watch
republican thing back and forth i would be inclined to turn it off i mean people at home want to know across this country they
republican want to know what were going to do to fix this place how well balance a budget how were going to create more economic
republican growth how well pay down the debt what were going to do to strengthen the military so we just spent 10 minutes here
republican but but wait a minute its a lot of ad hogshead now i know that it may be buzzing out there but i think its important
republican we get to the issues because thats what people want and they dont want all this fighting yeah well well let me just
republican say this first of all i think its a bad agreement i would never have done it but you know a lot of our problems in
republican the world today is that we dont have the relationship with our allies if we want to go everywhere alone we will not
republican have the strength as if we could rebuild with our allies now this agreement we dont know whats going to happen in
republican 18 months i served on the defense committee for 18 years ive seen lots of issues in foreign affairs and foreign in
republican terms of global politics you have to be steady now heres the if they cheat we slap the sanctions back on if they
republican help hamas and hezbollah we slap the sanctions back on and if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon
republican than the military option is on the table we are stronger when we work with the western civilization our friends in
republican europe and just doing it on our own i dont think is the right policy no no no i want to i want to i want to say something
republican about what the senator just said no one is no let me let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the
republican world when our allies work with us president bush did it in the gulf war we work better when we are unified secondly
republican nobodys trusting iran they violate the deal we put on the sanctions and we have the high moral ground to talk to
republican our allies in europe to get them to go with us if they dont go with us we slap the sanctions on anyway if they fund
republican these radical groups that threaten israel and all of the west then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions
republican back on and let me make it clear let me make it clear if we think if we think theyre getting close to a to developing
republican a nuclear weapon and we get that information you better believe that i would do everything in my power as the commanderinchief
republican to stop them having a nuclear weapon we can have it and we can have our allies and we can be strong as a country
republican and we can project across this globe with unity not just doing it alone that is not what gets us where we want to
republican get as a nation well i agree that we should defund planned parenthood i dont know many people in america who dont
republican think that we should and in my state were trying to figure out how to get it done because we are threatened with
republican the federal government taking all of our medicaid money away i think there is a way to get this done by giving governors
republican the ability to be able to act to defund planned parenthood but when it comes to closing down the federal government
republican you gotta be very careful about that when we shut the government down if we have a chance at success and its a great
republican principle yes the president of the united states is not going to sign this and all were gonna do is shut the government
republican down and then were gonna open up open it up and the american people are gonna shake their heads and say whats the
republican story with these republicans so i think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for planned parenthood i
republican was in the congress for 18 years balanced the budget cut taxes got it done changed welfare went around the president
republican to get welfare reform done there are ways to do it without having to shut the government down but im sympathetic
republican to the fact that we dont want this organization to get funding and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family
republican planning in other organizations that dont support this tactic but i would not be for shutting the government down
republican because i dont think its going to work out were not what i can tell you is this we didnt surrender in new jersey
republican six years ago as the brand new first ever prolife governor of new jersey since roe versus wade i defended planned
republican parenthood and ive vetoed planned parenthood funding now eight times in new jersey since the day i walked in as governor
republican planned parenthood has not been funded in new jersey we stood up and every one of those vetoes has been sustained
republican but heres the problem were were fighting with each other up here we agree lets ask hillary clinton she believes in
republican the systematic murder of children in the womb to preserve their body parts dana in a way that maximizes their value
republican for sale for profit it is disgusting and the american people need to hear it we shouldnt be fighting with each other
republican shes the real opponent shes the real problem ill tell you what ill tell you what id be willing to fight for ill tell
republican you what id be willing to fight for why will we put tax reform on the presidents desk so we can simplify this tax
republican system no no its really important dana we got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for why dont we
republican put tax reform on this presidents desk and make him veto it if thats what he wants to do why havent we repealed and
republican replaced obamacare make him veto if thats what he wants to do theres a jake ok jake i dont at this point in terms
republican of changing the incentives for investment and risktaking but lets just stop for a second theres one person on this
republican stage that does have a record im the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led
republican the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget we also cut taxes and when i left
republican washington in 2000 we had a 5 trillion surplus and the economy was booming i had spent 10 years of my life to get
republican us to that point went out in the private sector was a great experience and went into ohio and took an 8 billion hole
republican and turned it into a 2 billion surplus weve had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor weve grown
republican well over 300000 jobs you see ive done it in both places im the only one here that has done it in both places it
republican took a lot to get us to a balanced budget it was legitimate it was real and we negotiated it a lot of what were talking
republican about here tonight as we take this position and that position you know what at the end of the day america has got
republican to work weve got to figure out how we come together to deal with this with our fiscal problems because when we deal
republican with that we create a stronger economy for everybody people have a chance to rise so you know when we think about
republican how we make a choice its the person that lands that plane its not somebody that talks about it its about the person
republican who has done it and ive done it in both places and i did it including people in the other party and thats how we
republican were successful and thats how i will be president using that experience to drive this country forward thank you well
republican look people still have to get to know me so i want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare
republican balancing budgets cutting taxes providing economic growth when i was in washington turning ohio around eight billion
republican in the hole 2 billion surplus up over 300000 jobs big tax cuts strengthening our credit all those things matter but
republican you know as a young man in my first election in 1978 i defeated an incumbent democrat i defeated an incumbent democrat
republican in 1982 running on the reagan program i was the only republican in america to defeat an incumbent democrat that year
republican and then when i won for election of governor i was the first republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years and the
republican first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent that hadnt happened for
republican 96 years so well get to the point where well talk about hillary clinton or whoever the nominee is record but right
republican now i want to give people sense of hope sense of purpose a sense of unity sense that we can do it so you know at
republican the end of the day im going to continue to talk about my record because there is did you ever notice when people
republican run for office they run for president they make a lot of promises they dont keep them i dont intend to do that and
republican i going to be out there pushing it out dont worry about me and hillary that will all work out and im from ohio she
republican will not beat me there i can promise you that can i just can i jake can i just make one point on this whole military
republican discussion i called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest
republican you know you win a battle with the military and when we go somewhere we need to be mobile and lethal we need to take
republican care of business and we need to come home but we face also a bigger war and you win the bigger war with the battle
republican of ideas you wonder why young people and educated people rich people schooled people have tried to join isis western
republican civilization all of us need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out and in
republican western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the jewish and christian principals force us to live
republican a life bigger than ourselves to make centers of justice so that we can battle the radicals call them out for what
republican they are and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in western civilization this is a giant battle
republican in the world today well its probably not maybe legal but i would pick mother theresa the lady that i had a chance
republican to meet a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own an inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility
republican to love our neighbor as we love ourselves well i have one now they call me unit one my wife says youll never be unite
republican one im unite one youre unit two well as president i will make this a nation that will solve problems and how by having
republican the elected officials and the leaders realize theyre americans before theyre republicans or democrats i did it in
republican washington and ive done it in ohio by having the elected officials realize that theyre ohioans before anything else
republican secondly i will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world we have no choice but
republican to do that we will be stronger when we are unified and well fight for freedom and for human rights and finally a
republican little bit of what carly said the people that are out there listening america was never great because we ran america
republican from the top down america is great because we have run america from the bottom up where we all live in the neighborhoods
republican one more time in america we need to revive the concept of citizenship where everybodys actions make a huge difference
republican in changing the world we have a holocaust memorial on our state house grounds and there is one line on there that
republican stands out all the time if youve saved one life youve changed the world we need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild
republican and reinspire our country thank you
