republican im jeb bush and i believe americas on the verge of its greatest century and im ready to lead im a committed conservative
republican reformer that cut taxes that balanced budgets that took on the special interest in florida and we won i look forward
republican to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken washington dc and create an environment where people can rise up
republican again in this great country thank you i think the voters will make that determination but what i know to be true
republican is that the next president of the united states is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation this
republican administration with president obama and hillary clinton has created insecurity the likes of which we never wouldve
republican imagined theres not a place in the world where were better off today than six and a half years ago and that requires
republican a steadiness that requires an understanding of how the world works that requires an understanding and appreciation
republican of american leadership in the world you cant just you know talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world
republican and expect a good result you have to do this with a steady hand and i believe i have those skills no absolutely not
republican people are supporting me because i have a proven record of conservative leadership where i cut taxes 19 billion over
republican eight years we shrunk the state government workforce we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven
republican out of eight years we were one of two states to go to aaa bond rating people know that we need principlecentered
republican leadership a disrupter to go to washington dc the one guy that had some special interests that i know of that tried
republican to get me to change my views on something that was generous and gave me money was donald trump he wanted casino gambling
republican in florida yes you did you wanted it and you didnt get it because i was opposed to casino gambling before during
republican and after and thats not im not going to be bought by anybody no way believe me not even possible youve got according
republican to your to what you said on one of the talk shows you got hillary clinton to go to your wedding because you gave
republican her money maybe it works for hillary clinton it doesnt work for anybody on this on stage but the simple fact is no
republican the simple fact is donald you could not take i was asked the question so he supports pelosi he supports schumer he
republican supports clinton when he and he when he asked when he asked florida to have casino gambling we said no we said no
republican and thats the simple fact the simple fact is dont cut me off no i dont think so but we need to be strong against
republican china we should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security send a deterrent signal to china there should
republican be super sanctions in what president obama has proposed theres many other tools that we have without canceling a
republican dinner thats not going to change anything but we can be much stronger as it relates to that as it relates to iran
republican its not a strategy to tear up an agreement a strategy would be how do we confront iran and the first thing that we
republican need to do is to establish our commitment to israel which has been altered by this administration and make sure that
republican they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to iran that we have israels back if we do that its going
republican to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else i can think of i dont think youre not stating my views
republican right i think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith religious conscience is is is a first freedom
republican its its a powerful part of our of our bill of rights and in a big tolerant country we should respect the rule of
republican law allow people in in in this country im a i was opposed to the decision but we you cant just say well they gays
republican cant get married now but this woman there should be some accommodation for her conscience just as there should be
republican for people that are florists that dont want to participate in weddings or bakers a great country like us should find
republican a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way this should be solved at
republican the local level and so we do agree mike well hes wrong on a lot of things but on this hes wrong because im the most
republican prolife governor on this stage i got to act on my core beliefs its part of who i am life is a gift from god and from
republican beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life and so i defunded planned parenthood we created a
republican climate where parental notification took place we were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state
republican moneys we were totally focused on this and i would bring that kind of philosophy to washington dc so here is a solution
republican to this title x of the hhs funding there is something that was the reagan rule it was passed in 1988 and in that
republican rule it was defined and the courts approved this that a planned parenthood you couldnt separate the money between
republican the actual abortion procedures and there are 330000 abortions that take place in this clinic and their promotion
republican of it he interpreted it the right way the courts ruled in his favor and planned parenthood did not get funding during
republican that time until president clinton came in when im elected president we will restore that interpretation of title
republican x and this deal will be finished there are 13000 communitybased organizations that provide health services to women
republican 13000 in this country i dont believe that planned parenthood should get a penny from the federal government those
republican organizations should get funding just as i increased funding when i was governor of the state thats the way you do
republican this is you improve the condition for people and donald when i was governor we also increased the opportunities for
republican women womens income grew three times faster than the national average when i was governor we improved we improved
republican we increased child support we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent i have a proven record i
republican have a proven record he did he did youre proud of your family just as i am to subject my wife into the middle of
republican a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate and i hope you apologize for that donald she is shes
republican fantastic she is absolutely the love of my life and shes right here and why dont you apologize to her right now yeah
republican so heres the deal my wife is a mexicanamerican shes an american by choice she loves this country as much as anybody
republican in this room and she wants a secure border but she wants to embrace the traditional american values that make us
republican special and make us unique were at a crossroads right now are we going to take the reagan approach the hopeful optimistic
republican approach the approach that says that you come to our country legally you pursue your dreams with a vengeance you
republican create opportunities for all of us or the donald trump approach the approach that says that everything is bad that
republican everything is coming to an end i im on the reagan side of this look first of all i wrote a book about this three
republican four years ago now and i laid out a comprehensive conservative approach for immigration reform and it does require
republican securing the border no one disagrees with that but to build a wall and to deport people half a million a month would
republican cost hundreds of billions of dollars donald hundreds of billions of dollars it would destroy community life it would
republican tear families apart and it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the united states values that are so
republican important for our longterm success no longer matter in this country well ive been speaking english here tonight and
republican ill keep speaking english but the simple fact is if a high school kid asks me a question in spanish a school by the
republican way a voucher program that was created under my watch the largest voucher program in the country where kids can go
republican to a christian school and they ask me a question in spanish im going to show respect and answer that question in
republican spanish even though they do speak english and even though they embrace american values yeah well first of all hugh
republican if youre looking at republican advisers you have to go to the last two administrations that happened to be 41 and
republican 43 so just by definition if youre and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts
republican in the republican side they they served in my dads administration my brothers administration of course thats the
republican case but im my own man im going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the united states needs
republican to lead the world the first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester rebuild our military
republican so that our so that we dont deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe to
republican send a signal to the world that were serious if were going to lead the world then we need to have the strongest military
republican possible we need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities we need to focus on the fact that
republican the next president is going to start in 2017 not in 1990 you know 30 years ago or when my brother started the world
republican is dramatically different and i believe that we need to restore americas presence and leadership in the world name
republican a country where our relationship is better today than it was the the day that barack obama got elected president
republican under hillary clinton and barack obama we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president
republican of the united states so ill have a team that will be that will be following the doctrine i set up and it will be
republican peace through strength were sitting here in this library which is a wonderful place to talk about this because thats
republican exactly what happened in the 1980s and the world was a lot safer because of the leadership of ronald reagan and my
republican so you the the first chance right after me and then ill ill yield yield the floor what do you guys say in the senate
republican when youre talking and debating heres the is a great negotiator that she could bring about a better deal on iran
republican you know what as it relates to my brother theres one thing i know for sure he kept us safe i dont know if you remember
republican donald you remember the the rumble you remember the fire fighter with his arms around it he sent a clear signal that
republican the united states would be strong and fight islamic terrorism and he did keep us safe thats thats my brother heres
republican the lessons of because of what president obamas done by pulling back well im surprised senator cruz would say that
republican since he was as strong supporter of john roberts at the time i will talk about what i will do as it relates to appointing
republican supreme court justices we need to make sure that we have justices that with a proven experienced record of respect
republican for upholding the constitution that is what we need we cant have the history in recent past is appoint people that
republican have no experience so that you cant get attacked and that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they
republican wont veer off john roberts has made some really good decisions for sure but he did not have a proven extensive record
republican that would have made the clarity the important thing and thats what we need to do and im willing to fight for those
republican nominees to make sure that they get passed you cant do it the politically expedient way anymore this is the culture
republican in washington you have to fight hard for these appointments this is perhaps the most important thing that the next
republican president will do well first of all he as i said supported john roberts he supported him publicly so you can rewrite
republican history i guess ted but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would
republican have thought would have made a great justice and i think he is doing a good job but the simple fact is that going
republican forward what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it
republican clear that he is a focused exclusively on upholding the constitution of the united states so they wont try to use
republican the bench as a means to which legislate he was talking about me well i i wanted to be make it easier for him and
republican i just did so 40 years ago i smoked marijuana and i admit it im sure that other people might have done it and may
republican not want to say it in front of 25 million people my moms not happy that i just did thats true and heres the deal
republican heres the deal we have we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana what goes on in colorado
republican as far as im concerned that should be a state decision but if you look at the problem of drugs in this in this society
republican today its a serious problem rand you know this because youre campaigning in new hampshire like all of us and you
republican see the epidemic of heroin the overdoses of heroin thats taking place peoples families are are being torn apart it
republican is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment more prevention
republican were the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in in in florida there are drug courts to give
republican people a second chance thats the best way to do this no youre wrong youre wrong about this i dont want to put poor
republican people in jail randy heres the deal no i did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very
republican issue thats the way to solve this problem medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up there was a huge loophole
republican it was the first step to getting to a place and as a citizen of florida i voted no not very far i think we need to
republican do this state by state there are places that get this right and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy
republican laws this is a complicated place but i do think the natural impulse on the left hillary clinton immediately after
republican one of these horrific violent acts took place immediately said we need to have federal gun laws president obama almost
republican reflexively always says the same thing and the net result is youre going to take away rights of of lawabiding citizens
republican the 99999 percent of the people that are law abiding citizens thats not the right approach to do it in florida we
republican have a background check we have concealedweapon permit holders and in fact theres 1200000 of them we have a reduction
republican in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime thats the better
republican approach but were living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation i i think there needs to be
republican a hearing but the fact is we need to encourage that kind of involvement thats thats exactly what we need to do i
republican would go with ronald reagans partner margaret thatcher probably illegal but what the heck since its not going to
republican happen a strong leader is what we need in the white house and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the
republican united kingdom into greatness ever ready its very high energy donald six million more people are living in poverty
republican than the day that barack obama got elected president six million more people the middle class has had declining income
republican workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977 for the first time in modern history more businesses
republican are failing than are being created that is what the next president will have to deal with and i believe we can reverse
republican course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left
republican says we just have to get used to but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax fix the broken regulatory
republican system embrace the energy revolution in our midst fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver
republican deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create
republican way too much debt if we grow at 4 percent people are going to be lifted out of poverty the great middle that defines
republican our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit that should be the great challenge
republican and the great opportunity for the next president of the united states to forge consensus to go back to a highgrowth
republican strategy and then well be able to lead the world without a highgrowth strategy our country will never have the resources
republican or the optimism to be able to lead the world which the world desperately needs our leadership
republican hi im ben carson and im a retired pediatric neurosurgeon im here with my wife candy of 40 years and two of my sons
republican and their wives i stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that ive gotten involved in this race
republican is because im very concerned about the future of our children and the direction of our country is one that does not
republican portend well unless we the people intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle typically politicians do
republican things that are politically expedient and they are looking for whatever their particular goal is that is not the
republican reason that i have gotten into this thing im extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country the divisiveness
republican that is going on fiscal irresponsibility the failure to take a leadership position in the world all of those things
republican will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that weve had now so i dont i dont want
republican to really get into describing whos a politician and whos not a politician but i think the people have kind of made
republican that decision for themselves already and will continue to do so as time goes on jake can i say something about that
republican you know when i entered this race all the political pundits said its impossible you cant do it because youre not
republican connected with the money and theres no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully i in
republican no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires i have said to
republican the people if they want me to do this please get involved and we now have over 500000 donations and the money is
republican coming in but the pundits forgot about one thing and that is the people and they are really in charge well first
republican of all i recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem i was down in arizona a few weeks ago at
republican the border i mean the fences that were there were not manned and those are the kind of fences when i was a kid that
republican would barely slow us down so i dont see any purpose in having that now what we need to do is look at something that
republican actually works yuma county arizona they stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there they put in a double
republican fence with a road so that there was quick access by the enforcement people if we dont seal the border the rest of
republican this stuff clearly doesnt matter its kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about we have the ability to
republican do it we dont have the will to do it there was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence and to repair it they
republican put a few strands of barb wire across well the photographers who were there with us they wanted to photograph us
republican from the side of the mexicans and they went through there and they were not physically fit people and they took their
republican cameras and things with them and shot us from the other side thats how easy it is to get across and the drugs i mean
republican it goes on and on and on ice tells them to release these people 67000 criminals released on to our property its ridiculous
republican well i have also said if anybody knows how to do that that i would be willing to listen and if they can you know
republican specify exactly how thats going to be done and what the cost and it sounds reasonable then i think its worth discussing
republican not exactly what i said well what i said after we seal the borders after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all
republican the goodies so we dont have people coming in here including employment that people who had a pristine record we should
republican consider allowing them to become guest workers primarily in the agricultural sphere because thats the place where
republican americans dont seem to want to work thats what i said and they have a sixmonth period to do that if they dont do
republican it within that time period then they become illegal and as illegals they will be treated as such can i can i can
republican i just can i correct ok my plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons number one you know ive talked to farmers
republican and they said they cannot hire americans to do the kind of job that im talking about and the second reason is because
republican the individuals who register as guest workers they dont get to vote they are not american citizens and they dont
republican get the rights and privileges of american citizens so thats key but the other thing that i want to bring up is i
republican mentioned something earlier i think it was just sort of glossed over i talked about the success in yuma county i
republican mean incredible success and the department of justice said no we dont want to do that thats too successful we dont
republican have to keep reinventing the wheel all we have to do is look at things that work all we have to do is use a little
republican common sense its all about america you know the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had
republican 10 he has still got 9 billion left thats not fair we need to take more of his money thats called socialism that doesnt
republican work so well what made america into a great nation was the fact that we said that guy just put in 1 billion lets
republican create an environment thats even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in 2 billion and thats
republican the kind of thing that helps us to grow we cant grow by continuing to take a piece of pie and dividing it and redistributing
republican it but im also looking at what doctor at what governor huckabee talked about the fair tax looking at both of them
republican and evaluating them both and im talking to the american people because one of the things we must recognize is that
republican this country is of for and by the people and its really time that the government get out of the way and let the people
republican be the ones who decide how they want to run their country well first of all let me say what i actually said about
republican raising the minimum wage i was asked should it be raised i said probably or possibly but what i added which i think
republican is the most important thing so i said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down and talk about it negotiate
republican a reasonable minimum wage and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of
republican america i think we also have to have two minimum wages a starter and a sustaining because how are young people ever
republican going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them jake jake i havent
republican had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy and i just want to mention that when the war when the issue occurred
republican in 2003 i suggested to president bush that he not go to war ok so i just want that on the record and you know a lot
republican of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism and they refer back to our invasion
republican of iraq and they seem to think that that was what caused it what caused it was withdrawing from there and creating
republican a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur but it is very different from what is going on today were
republican talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us they are an existential threat to our nation and we
republican have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand we have
republican to recognize we have two choices we either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners or we
republican use every resource available to us to destroy them first well recognize that you know president george w bush is
republican a great friend of ours and we spent many wonderful days at the white house i havent been there in the last seven
republican years i probably have to have a foodtester but at any rate i didnt suggest that nothing be done what i suggested
republican to president bush is to be kennedyesque in the sense that when the russians got ahead of us in the space race what
republican we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody business industry academia behind a national goal to put a
republican man on the moon and bring him back safely i said you can do the same kind of thing declare that within five to 10
republican years we will become petroleum independent the moderate arab states would have been so concerned about that they
republican would have turned over osama bin laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks there are
republican smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things and sometimes you have to look at both of those
republican to come up with the right solution i have no argument with having a strong leader and to be aggressive where aggression
republican is needed but it is not needed in every circumstance there is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with
republican other ways to do things and i think thats what we have to start thinking about there is no question that a lot of
republican these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak it
republican is because our navy is so small it is because our air force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few
republican years ago its because our marines corps is not ready to be deployed there are a lot of problems that are going on
republican and we need to solve those problems we need to build up our military well let me put it this way there has there
republican have been numerous studies and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and
republican autism this was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago and it has not been adequately you know revealed
republican to the public whats actually going on vaccines are very important certain ones the ones that would prevent death
republican or crippling there are others there are a multitude of vaccines which probably dont fit in that category and there
republican should be some discretion in those cases but you know a lot of this is is is pushed by big government and i think
republican thats one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of big government you know we have 41 million federal
republican employees six hundred and fifty federal agencies and department thats why they have to take so much of our taxes
republican well you know ive just explained it to him he can read about it if he wants to i think hes an intelligent man and
republican will make the correct decision after getting the real facts hes an ok doctor but you know the fact of the matter
republican is we have extremely welldocumented proof that theres no autism associated with vaccinations but it is true that
republican we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time and a lot of pediatricians now recognize that and
republican i think are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done and i think thats appropriate id
republican put my mother on there you know she was one of 24 children got married at age 13 had only a third grade education
republican had to raise two sons by herself refused to be a victim wouldnt let us be victims and has been an inspiration to
republican many people one nation well you know i was a radical democrat before i started listening to ronald reagan and he
republican didnt sound like what they said republicans were he sounded logical and i hope that i sound logical also because
republican when i look at what is going on with the united states of america i see a lot of things that are not logical i see
republican us allowing people to divide us when in fact our strength is in our unity i see people exercising the most irresponsible
republican fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do and hiding it from the american people so that the majority of people
republican have no idea what our financial situation is so when someone comes along and says free college free phones free this
republican and that and the other they say wow thats nice having no idea that theyre destabilizing our position and i think
republican also that ronald reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads if we
republican learn to lead in the middle east right now a coalition will form behind us but never they do it if we just sit there
republican and talk about it real leadership is what i would hopefully bring to america
democrat thank you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for organizing this debate not only will americans be electing
democrat a new president next year we also will be electing a world leader voters should assess the candidates experience
democrat character and vision for the future as they make this important decision im the only one running for president that
democrat has been a mayor a united states senator and a governor as mayor i brought labor peace to my city and kept taxes
democrat down i was reelected three times as a senator i earned a reputation for courageous votes against the bushcheney tax
democrat cuts the favored the wealthy against the tragedy of the iraq war for environmental stewardship for protection of
democrat our civil liberties i served on the foreign relations committee and i chaired the middle east subcommittee for four
democrat years as governor i came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state around rhode island had the biggest
democrat drop of the unemployment rate over my four budgets of all but one state it happens to be nevada where were having
democrat this debate im very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service i have had no scandals ive always been honest
democrat i have the courage to take the longterm view and ive shown good judgment i have high ethical standards as we look
democrat to the future i want to address the income inequality close the gap between the haves and the havenots i want to
democrat address climate change a real threat to our planet and i believe in prosperity through peace i want to end these
democrat wars i look forward to the discussion ahead thank you anderson youre looking at a block of granite when it comes
democrat to the issues whether its did you hear what i said on the issues i have not changed on the issues i was a liberal
democrat republican then i was an independent and now im a proud democrat but i have not changed on the issues and i open
democrat my record to scrutiny whether its on the environment a womans right to choose gay marriage fiscal responsibility
democrat aversion to foreign entanglements using the tools of government to help the less fortunate time and time again i
democrat have never changed youre looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues so i have not changed the party
democrat left me theres no doubt about that there was no room for a liberal moderate republican in that party i even had a
democrat primary for my reelection in 2006 i won it but the money poured in to defeat me in rhode island as a republican thats
democrat what we were up against yes i have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation but the reality
democrat is despite these tragedies that happen time and time again when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety
democrat legislation the gun lobby moves in and tells the people theyre coming to take away your guns and theyre successful
democrat at it in colorado and others states the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated
democrat i even saw in rhode island so i would bring the gun lobby in and say weve got to change this where can we find common
democrat ground wayne lapierre from the nra whoever it is the leaders come one weve go to change this were not coming to take
democrat away your guns we believe in the second amendment but lets find common ground here well we just heard senator sanders
democrat say that its the worst decision in american history thats very significant the worst decision in american history
democrat i just heard from senator sanders so as we look ahead if youre going to make those poor judgment calls a critical
democrat time in our history we just finished with the vietnam era getting back into another quagmire if youre looking ahead
democrat and youre looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into iraq when there was no real evidence
democrat of weapons of mass destruction in iraq i know because i did my homework and so thats an indication of how someone
democrat will perform in the future and thats whats important ok i just have to answer one thing that senator webb said about
democrat the iran deal because im a strong proponent of what president obama and he said that because of that the iran deal
democrat that enabled russia to come in no thats not true senator webb i respect your foreign policy chops but russia is aligned
democrat with iran and with assad and the alawite shias in syria so that iran deal did not allow russia to come in its certainly
democrat the chaos in the middle east theres no doubt about it and it all started with the iraq invasion absolutely we have
democrat to repair american credibility after we told the world that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction which
democrat he didnt so theres an issue of american credibility out there so any time someone is running to be our leader and
democrat a world leader which the american president is credibility is an issue out there with the world and we have repair
democrat work to be done i think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president thats how i
democrat feel the glasssteagall was my very first vote id just arrived my dad had died in office i was appointed to the office
democrat it was my very first vote id just arrived at the senate i think wed get some takeovers and that was one it was my
democrat very first vote and it was 925 it was the but let me just say i think youre being a little rough id just arrived
democrat at the united states senate id been mayor of my city my dad had died id been appointed by the governor it was the
democrat first vote and it was 905 because it was a conference report but let me just say about income inequality weve had
democrat a lot of talk over the last few minutes hours or tens of minutes but no one is saying how were going to fix it and
democrat it all started with the bush tax cuts that favored the wealthy so lets go back to the tax code and 06 percent of
democrat americans are at the top echelon over 464000 06 americans thats less than 1 percent but they generate 30 percent
democrat of the revenue and theyre doing fine so theres still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon im saying lets
democrat have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket and that will generate 42 billion and then we can help the
democrat middle class and hardearning americans hardworking americans no that was another 99 to one vote for the patriot act
democrat and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what weve always done to tap phones which always required
democrat a warrant and i voted for that no no as long as youre getting a warrant i believe that under the fourth amendment
democrat you should be able to do surveillance but you need a warrant thats what the fourth amendment says and in the patriot
democrat act section 215 started to get broadened too far so i would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of
democrat the patriot act no i would bring him home the courts have ruled that what he did what he did was say the american
democrat the american government was acting illegally thats what the federal courts have said what snowden did showed that
democrat the american government was acting illegally for the fourth amendment so i would bring him home certainly ending
democrat the wars weve got to stop these wars you have to have a new dynamic a new paradigm we just spent a halfbillion dollars
democrat arming and training soldiers the rebel soldiers in syria they quickly join the other side we bombed the id like to
democrat finish my question my answer and also we just bombed a hospital weve had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings
democrat so i would change how we our approach to the middle east we need a new paradigm in the middle east i guess the coal
democrat lobby ive worked hard for climate change and i want to work with the coal lobby but in my time in the senate tried
democrat to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide im proud to be at odds with the coal lobby thank
democrat you anderson thank you cnn and thank you facebook for sponsoring this debate america has many challenges confronting
democrat us ending the perpetual wars addressing climate change addressing income inequality funding education funding infrastructure
democrat funding healthcare helping black americans helping native americans we have many challenges who is best able to confront
democrat these challenges ive served in government at many levels i know what its like to solve problems at the local level
democrat because i did it as mayor i know how to get legislation passed through congress because i did it as a senator i know
democrat how to turn around a state because i did as governor of rhode island but what im most proud of is that in 30 years
democrat of public service i have had no scandals i have high ethical standards and what im most proud of is my judgment particularly
democrat in the iraq war vote there was a lot of pressure political pressure public pressure but i did my homework and i did
democrat not believe that the evidence was there that saddam hussein had weapons of mass destruction and we live now with
democrat the consequences so that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward and im running for president
democrat to end the wars i want to be the peacemaker i am a proven peacemaker please go to chafee 2016 to learn more about
democrat me thank you
republican hi my name is chris christie and id like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because id like
republican to ask all of you how many of you raise your hand believe that in todays barak obama america your children will have
republican a better life than youve had you see thats why im running for president because leadership is not about me its about
republican our country and what we talk about tonight its not about us its about the people in the audience tonight because
republican in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust and their faith and their belief that the next
republican generation will have a better life hes stolen that from us and when im president im going to take it back well i
republican know ben wasnt talking about me im sure he was talking about one of the other guys not me as far as being an outsider
republican is concerned as far as being an outsider is concerned let me tell you this jake im a republican in new jersey i wake
republican up every morning as an outsider i wake up every morning with a democratic legislature who trying to beat my head
republican in and fight me because im trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately and so everyone
republican can talk us here about their credentials but the bottom line is every morning i get up i veto 400 bills from a crazy
republican liberal democratic legislature not one of them has been overridden ive vetoed more tax increases than any governor
republican in american history according to americans for tax reform what folks want in this country is somebody to go down
republican there and get the job done and thats exactly what ill do so i know this much that what the american people want to
republican hire right now is somebody who believes in them and believes that they are the ones who can fix our country i will
republican be the vessel through which they can fix this country but its not about me its about all of you and getting this
republican government off your back and out of your way and letting you succeed i know ben wasnt talking about me look at him
republican smiling at me right now i know ben didnt mean it about me one of these other guys im sure be honest ben be honest
republican see jake it wasnt me i was she is and so if she based on conscience cant sign that that marriage license then there
republican should be someone in her office to be able to do it and if the law needs to be changed in the state of kentucky which
republican is what shes advocating it should be changed and why dont we do the same thing with planned parenthood we elected
republican a republican congress to do this and they should be doing it and theyre not and theyre giving the president a pass
republican i put it in the list dana we should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action lets force him
republican to do what he says hes going to do now i dont know whether hell do it or not but lets force him to do it first of
republican jake i dont yield to anybody on how to enforce the law im the only person on this stage who spent seven years as
republican a united states attorney after september 11th and i know how to do this the fact is though that for 15000 people
republican a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the
republican current levels of funding and the current number of law enforcement officers heres what we need to do and i think
republican this is where donald is absolutely right what we need to do is to secure our border and we need to do it with more
republican than just a wall we need to use electronics we need to use drones we need to use fbi dea and atf and yes we need
republican to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa and when they overstay their visa we
republican need to tap them on the shoulder and say you have overstayed your welcome youre taking advantage of the american
republican people its time for you to go if we had that kind of system in place we wouldnt have the 11 million people we have
republican now jake listen while im as entertained as anyone by this personal backandforth about the history of donald and carlys
republican career for the 55yearold construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesnt have a job who cant fund his
republican childs education ive got to tell you the truth they could care less about your careers they care about theirs lets
republican start talking about that on this stage and stop playing and stop playing the games stop playing john im not done
republican yet john stop and stop playing and carly carly listen you can interrupt everybody else on this stage youre not going
republican to interrupt me ok the fact is that we dont want to hear about your careers back and forth and volleying back and
republican forth about who did well and who did poorly youre both successful people congratulations you know whos not successful
republican the middle class in this country whos getting plowed over by barack obama and hillary clinton lets start talking
republican about those issues tonight and stop this childish backandforth between the two of you listen you know hugh its an
republican important point and the question is who is going to prosecute hillary clinton the obama white house seems to have
republican in interest the justice department seems to have no interest i think its time to put a former federal prosecutor
republican on the same stage as hillary clinton and i will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record were
republican talking about here the fact she had a private email server in her basement using national security secrets running
republican through it could have been hacked by the russians the chinese or two 18yearolds on a toot wanting to have some fun
republican no one is answering that question from the hillary clinton campaign you know why because she knows shes wrong and
republican she cannot look in the mirror at herself and she cannot tell the american people the truth well jake i was named
republican us attorney by president bush on september 10th 2001 and that next day my wife mary pat did what she did every day
republican she traveled through the world trade center and went to her office two blocks from the world trade center and after
republican those planes hit for fiveandahalfhours after that i couldnt reach her didnt know whether she was dead or alive and
republican we had three children at the time 8 5 and 1 and i had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had
republican to confront the idea i might become a single parent the idea that my life and my childrens life might be changed
republican forever we lost friends that day we went to the funerals and i will tell you that what those people wanted and what
republican they deserved was for america to answer back against what had been done to them and i support what president bush
republican did at that time going into afghanistan hunting al qaeda and its leaders getting its sanctuary out of place and making
republican it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money and then he went to prosecutors like us and he
republican said never again dont prosecute these people after the crime is committed intervene before the crime happens i absolutely
republican believe that what the president did at the time was right and i am proud to have been one of the people on the stage
republican who was part of making sure that what governor bush said before was the truth america was safe for those seven years
republican and barack obama has taken that safety away from us let me say this jake is that while that may have been a fine
republican idea that dr carson had these people were out to kill us i stood in that region with my family and every time a plane
republican went overhead in the weeks after that peoples heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again
republican you do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point that could be handled later on what you need is a strong
republican american leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation thats what i would do as commanderinchief
republican in this circumstance and thats what president george w bush did in 2001 jake you brought my issue up you know i enjoy
republican the interplay thank you gentlemen ill just say this first off new jersey is the first state in the nation that now
republican says if you are nonviolent nondealing drug user that you dont go to jail for your first offense you go to mandatory
republican treatment you see jake im prolife and i think you need to be prolife for more than just the time in the womb it gets
republican tougher when they get out of the womb and when theyre the 16yearold drug addict in the florida county lockup that
republican life is just as precious as the life in the womb and so thats why im for rehabilitation why i think the war on drugs
republican has been a failure but ill end with this that doesnt mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs and if senator paul
republican thinks that the only victim is the person look at the decrease in productivity look at the way people get used and
republican move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug it is not them that are the only victims their families
republican are the victims too their children are the victims too and their employers are the victims also thats why ill enforce
republican the federal law while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation which weve done in new jersey and senator paul
republican knows that thats simply not the truth in new jersey we have medical marijuana laws which i supported and implemented
republican this is not medical marijuana theres goes as much a further step beyond this is recreational use of marijuana this
republican is much different and so while he would like to use a sympathetic story to back up his point it doesnt work im not
republican against medical marijuana we do it in new jersey but im against the recreational use against marijuana if he wants
republican to change the federal law get congress to pass the law to change it and get a president to sign it no its not but
republican with donald its a good start thats really good no listen this is an issue that that weve gotta talk about and we
republican havent talked about yet 71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service when john kennedy
republican was elected president in 1960 it was 26 percent harvard and dartmouth says that social securitys going to go insolvent
republican in seven to eight years so what i say is very simple we need to save this program for the good people out there who
republican have paid into the system and need it and if that means making sure that folks like donald and many of us on the
republican stage dont get it thats the right thing to do because heres what hillary clinton is going to want to do shes going
republican to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us this government doesnt need
republican more money to make social security solvent we need to be not paying out benefits to people who dont really need it
republican we need to protect the people who social security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and
republican food thats why i put out the proposal and thats the people im trying to i dont think senator rubio is a skeptic of
republican climate change i think what senator rubio said i agree with that in fact we dont need this massive government intervention
republican to deal with the problem look at what we have done in new jersey we have already reached our clean air goals for
republican 2020 and when i was governor i pulled out of the regional cap and trade deal the only state in the northeast that
republican did that and we still reached our goals why because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear we use natural
republican gas we use solar power were the thirdhighest using solar power state you know why because we made all of those things
republican economically feasible i agree with marco we shouldnt be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild leftwing
republican idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate we can contribute to that and be economically sound
republican we have proven we can do that in new jersey nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country
republican if we want to go after this problem i understand no no listen everybody makes a mistake every once in a while jake
republican even george shultz and if thats truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing then with all due respect
republican to the former secretary of state i disagree with him i think the adams family has been shorted in the currency business
republican our country wouldnt be here without john adams and he would not have been able to do it without abigal adams so id
republican put abigail adams on the bill you know ive been called a lot of names by a lot of different people and now i got
republican to get called by names by the secret service i would just say true heart i turned 18 in 1980 and my first vote was
republican for ronald reagan boy am i glad i did it and i think the country is too a christie presidency wont be about me it
republican will be about you tonight you sit at home in your living room frustrated that you play by the rules you pay the taxes
republican you do the hard things to raise your family yet you feel like americas generosity is being taken advantage of that
republican youve been system is being gamed and that youre turning out to fall further and further behind our presidency our
republican presidency will be about ending that about enforcing the law level the playing field for everybody and once again
republican reward those folks who play by the rules and think that justice means more than just the word but it means a way
republican of life and i will tell you this around the world i will not shake hands with i will not meet with and i will not
republican agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements
republican with them it will be an america that be strong and resolute and will once again be able to stick out its chest and
republican say we truly are the greatest nation in the world because we live our lives that way each and every day
democrat well thank you and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the democratic debates im hillary clinton i have
democrat been proud and privileged to serve as first lady as a senator from new york and as secretary of state im the granddaughter
democrat of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful oneyearold child and every day i think about what we need
democrat to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her but for all of our children i have spent a very
democrat long time my entire adult life looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead and in
democrat particular to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her godgiven potential ive traveled across our country
democrat over the last months listening and learning and ive put forward specific plans about how were going to create more
democrat goodpaying well actually i have been very consistent over the course of my entire life i have always fought for the
democrat same values and principles but like most human beings including those of us who run for office i do absorb new information
democrat i do look at whats happening in the world you know take the trade deal i did say when i was secretary of state three
democrat years ago that i hoped it would be the gold standard it was just finally negotiated last week and in looking at it
democrat it didnt meet my standards my standards for more new good jobs for americans for raising wages for americans and
democrat i want to make sure that i can look into the eyes of any middleclass american and say this will help raise your wages
democrat and i concluded i could not no i think that like most people that i know i have a range of views but they are rooted
democrat in my values and my experience and i dont take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and
democrat progressive commitment you know when i left law school my first job was with the childrens defense fund and for all
democrat the years since i have been focused on how were going to unstack the deck and how were gonna make it possible for
democrat more people to have the experience i had you know to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker
democrat a father who was a small business person and now asking the people of america to elect me president im a progressive
democrat but im a progressive who likes to get things done and i know how to find common ground and i know how to stand my
democrat ground and i have proved that in every position that ive had even dealing with republicans who never had a good word
democrat to say about me honestly but we found ways to work together on everything from reforming foster care and adoption
democrat to the childrens health insurance program which insures 8 million kids so i have a long history of getting things
democrat done rooted in the same values ive always had well let me just followup on that anderson because when i think about
democrat capitalism i think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom
democrat in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families and i dont think
democrat we should confuse what we have to do every so often in america which is save capitalism from itself and i think what
democrat senator sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have but we are not denmark
democrat i love denmark we are the united states of america and its our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that
democrat it doesnt run amok and doesnt cause the kind of inequities were seeing in our economic system but we would be making
democrat a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history of the world no not at all
democrat i think that we have to look at the fact that we lose 90 people a day from gun violence this has gone on too long
democrat and its time the entire country stood up against the nra the majority of our country supports background checks and
democrat even the majority of gun owners do senator sanders did vote five times against the brady bill since it was passed
democrat more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented he also did vote as he said for this immunity provision
democrat i voted against it i was in the senate at the same time it wasnt that complicated to me it was pretty straightforward
democrat to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in america everybody else has to be accountable but
democrat not the gun manufacturers and we need to stand up and well first of all we got a lot of business done with the russians
democrat when medvedev was the president and not putin we got a nuclear arms deal we got the iranian sanctions we got an ability
democrat to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in afghanistan theres no doubt that when putin came back
democrat in and said he was going to be president that did change the relationship we have to stand up to his bullying and
democrat specifically in syria it is important and i applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now
democrat with the russians to make it clear that theyve got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict
democrat and to provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of syria at the rate they are and
democrat i think its important too that the united states make it very clear to putin that its not acceptable for him to be
democrat in syria creating more chaos bombing people on behalf of assad and we cant do that if we dont take more of a leadership
democrat position which is what im advocating well nobody does nobody does senator sanders well i recall very well being on
democrat a debate stage i think about 25 times with then senator obama debating this very issue after the election he asked
democrat me to become secretary of state he valued my judgment and i spent a lot of time with him in the situation room going
democrat over some very difficult issues you know i i agree completely we dont want american troops on the ground in syria
democrat i never said that what i said was we had to put together a coalition in fact something that i worked on before i
democrat left the state department to do and yes that it should include arabs people in the region because what i worry about
democrat is what will happen with isis gaining more territory having more reach and frankly posing a threat to our friends
democrat and neighbors in the region and far beyond so i think while youre talking about the tough decision that president
democrat obama had to make about osama bin laden where i was one of his few advisers or putting together that coalition to
democrat impose sanctions on iran i think i have a lot of evidence well first of all i well i am in the middle here and lots
democrat of things coming from all directions you know i have to say i was very pleased when governor omalley endorsed me
democrat for president in 2008 and i enjoyed his strong support in that campaign and i consider him obviously a friend let
democrat me say because theres a lot of loose talk going on here we are already flying in syria just as we are flying in iraq
democrat the president has made a very tough decision what i believe and why i have advocated that the nofly zone which of
democrat course would be in a coalition be put on the table is because im trying to figure out what leverage we have to get
democrat russia to the table you know diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution its about how you balance the
democrat risks and i think we have an opportunity here and i know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated
democrat to get that leverage to try to get the russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward
democrat a political diplomatic solution in syria well lets remember what was going on we had a murderous dictator gadhafi
democrat who had american blood on his hands as im sure you remember threatening to massacre large numbers of the libyan people
democrat we had our closest allies in europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw
democrat as a mass genocide in their words and we had the arabs standing by our side saying we want you to help us deal with
democrat gadhafi our response which i think was smart power at its best is that the united states will not lead this we will
democrat provide essential unique capabilities that we have but the europeans and the arabs had to be first over the line
democrat we did not put one single american soldier on the ground in libya and ill say this for the libyan people but let
democrat ill get to that but i think its important since i understand senator webbs very strong feelings about this to explain
democrat where we were then and to point out that i think president obama made the right decision at the time and the libyan
democrat people had a free election the first time since 1951 and you know what they voted for moderates they voted with the
democrat hope of democracy because of the arab spring because of a lot of other things there was turmoil to be followed but
democrat unless you believe the united states should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous which i do not then
democrat when we send them forth there is always the potential for danger and risk i i think it has to be continued threat
democrat from the spread of nuclear weapons nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands i know the terrorists are
democrat constantly seeking it and thats why we have to stay vigilant but also united around the world to prevent that well
democrat ive taken responsibility for it i did say it was a mistake what i did was allowed by the state department but it
democrat wasnt the best choice and i have been as transparent as i know to be turning over 55000 pages of my emails asking
democrat that they be made public and youre right i am going to be testifying ive been asking to testify for some time and
democrat to do it in public which was not originally agreed to but lets just take a minute here and point out that this committee
democrat is basically an arm of the republican national committee it is a partisan vehicle as admitted by the house republican
democrat majority leader mr mccarthy to drive down my poll numbers big surprise and thats what they have attempted to do i
democrat am still standing i am happy to be part of this debate and i intend to keep talking about the issues that matter
democrat to the american people you know i believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about
democrat like how are we going to make college affordable how are we going to pay down student debt how are we going to get
democrat health care for everybody well i never said it wasnt legitimate i said that i have answered all the questions and
democrat i will certainly be doing so again before this committee but i think it would be really unfair not to look at the
democrat entire picture this committee has spent 45 million of taxpayer money and they said that they were trying to figure
democrat out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that something like benghazi wouldnt happen again there were
democrat already seven committee reports about what to do so i think its pretty clear what their obvious goal is but ill be
democrat there ill answer their questions but tonight i want to talk not about my emails but about what the american people
democrat want from the next president of the united states thank you me too me too thank you bernie thank you no well i think
democrat that president obama has been a great moral leader on these issues and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed
democrat by the republicans at every turn so so what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice i have talked
democrat about that at some length including things like body cameras but we also need to be following the recommendations
democrat of the commissioner that president obama empanelled on policing there is an agenda there that we need to be following
democrat up on similarly we need to tackle mass incarceration and this may be the only bipartisan issue in the congress this
democrat year we actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion that we can not keep
democrat imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world but i believe that the debate and the discussion has to go
democrat further anderson because weve got to do more about the lives of these children thats why i started off by saying
democrat we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential that is
democrat really hard to do if you dont have early childhood education if you dont have schools that are able to meet the needs
democrat of the people or good housing theres a long list we need a new new deal for communities of color well you know both
democrat bill and i have been very blessed neither of us came from wealthy families and weve worked really hard our entire
democrat lives and i want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and i have had
democrat to make the most of their godgiven potential and to have the chances that they should have in america for a good
democrat education good job training and then good jobs i have a five point economic plan because this inequality challenge
democrat we face we have faced it at other points its absolutely right it hasnt been this bad since the 1920s but if you look
democrat at the republicans versus the democrats when it comes to economic policy there is no comparison the economy does
democrat better when you have a democrat in the white house and thats why we need to have a democrat in the white house in
democrat january 2017 well my plan is more comprehensive and frankly its tougher because of course we have to deal with the
democrat problem that the banks are still too big to fail we can never let the american taxpayer and middle class families
democrat ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw but we also have to worry about some of the other
democrat players aig a big insurance company lehman brothers an investment bank theres this whole area called shadow banking
democrat thats where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from so im with both senator sanders and governor
democrat omalley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks and the plan that i have put forward would actually empower
democrat regulators to break up big banks if we thought they posed a risk but i want to make sure were going to cover everybody
democrat not what caused the problem last time but what could cause it next time yeah you know i i respect the passion an
democrat intensity i represented wall street as a senator from new york and i went to wall street in december of 2007 before
democrat the big crash that we had and i basically said cut it out! quit foreclosing on homes! quit engaging in these kinds
democrat of speculative behaviors i took on the bush administration for the same thing so i have thought deeply and long about
democrat what were gonna do to do exactly what i think both the senator and the governor want which is to rein in and stop
democrat this risk and my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail nobody went to jail after
democrat 100 billion in fines were paid and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks but im telling you
democrat i will say it tonight if only you look at the big banks you may be missing the forest for the trees so no thats not
democrat what that i think doddfrank was a very good start and i think that we have to implement it we have to prevent the
democrat republicans from ripping it apart we have to save the consumer financial protection board which is finally beginning
democrat to act to protect consumers we have work to do youve got no argument from me but i know if we dont come in with a
democrat very tough and comprehensive approach like the plan im recommending were gonna be behind instead of ahead on what
democrat the next crisis could be well you know everybody on this stage has changed a position or two weve been around a cumulative
democrat quite some period of time you know we know that if you are learning youre gonna change your position i never took
democrat a position on keystone until i took a position on keystone but i have been on the forefront of dealing with climate
democrat change starting in 2009 when president obama and i crashed a meeting with the chinese and got them to sign up to
democrat the first international agreement to combat climate change that theyd ever joined so im not taking a back seat to
democrat anybody on my values my principles and the results that i get well let me address college affordability because i
democrat have a plan that i think will really zero in on what the problems are first all the 40 million americans who currently
democrat have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate that will save thousands of dollars
democrat for people who are now struggling under this cumbersome burdensome college debt as a young student in nevada said
democrat to me the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it so then we have to make it more affordable
democrat how do we make it more affordable my plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free
democrat you would not have to borrow money for tuition but i do believe and maybe its because i worked when i went through
democrat college i worked when i went through law school i think its important for everybody to have some part of getting
democrat this accomplished thats why i call it a compact but yes i would like students to work 10 hours a week well i fully
democrat support social security and the most important fight were going to have is defending it against continuing republican
democrat efforts to privatize it i want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of social security we have a lot
democrat of women on social security particularly widowed and single women who didnt make a lot of money during their careers
democrat and they are impoverished and they need more help from the social security system and i will focus i will focus on
democrat helping those people who need it the most and of course im going to defend social security im going to look for ways
democrat to try to make sure its solvent into the future and we also need to talk about health care at some time because we
democrat agree on the goals we just disagree on the means well first of all i want to make sure every child gets health care
democrat thats why i helped to create the childrens health insurance program and i want to support states that are expanding
democrat health care and including undocumented children and others i want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be
democrat able to buy in to the exchanges under the affordable care act i think to go beyond that as i understand what governor
democrat omalley has recommended so that they would get the same subsidies i think that is it raises so many issues it would
democrat be very difficult to administer it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform when we finally do get
democrat to it i want to follow up because i think underneath juan carlos important questions there is such a difference between
democrat everything youre hearing here on this stage and what we hear from the republicans demonize hardworking immigrants
democrat who have insulted them you know i came to las vegas in i think may early may met with a group of dreamers i wish
democrat everybody in america could meet with this young people to hear their stories to know their incredible talent their
democrat determination and thats why i would go further than even the executive orders that president obama has signed when
democrat im president my plan would support any state that takes that position and would work with those states and encourage
democrat more states to do the same thing if their states agree then we want more states to do the same thing no i dont i
democrat think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 911 to put in place the security that we needed
democrat and it is true that it did require that there be a process what happened however is that the bush administration
democrat began to chip away at that process and i began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other
democrat behavior that they engaged in we always have to keep the balance of civil liberties privacy and security its not
democrat easy in a democracy but we have to keep it in mind he broke the laws of the united states he could have been a whistleblower
democrat he could have gotten all of the protections of being a whistleblower he could have raised all the issues that he
democrat has raised and i think there would have been a positive response to that in addition in addition he stole very important
democrat information that has unfortunately fallen into a lot of the wrong hands so i dont think he should be brought home
democrat without facing the music well i think thats pretty obvious i think being the first woman president would be quite
democrat a change from the presidents weve had up until this point including president obama well theres a lot that i would
democrat like to do to build on the successes of president obama but also as im laying out to go beyond and thats in my economic
democrat plans how i would deal with the prescription drug companies how i would deal with college how i would deal with a
democrat full range of issues that ive been talking about throughout this campaign to go further well thank you you know it
democrat does take me a little longer thats all i can say well i cant think of anything more of an outsider than electing
democrat the first woman president but im not just running because i would be the first woman president im running because
democrat i have a lifetime of experience in getting results and fighting for people fighting for kids for women for families
democrat fighting to even the odds and i know what it takes to get things done i know how to find common ground and i know
democrat how to stand my ground and i think were going to need both of those in washington to get anything that were talking
democrat about up here accomplished so im very happy that i have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a
democrat lifetime to bring together to offer the american people well i would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last
democrat name i would ask them to listen to what im proposing look at what ive accomplished in the senate as secretary of
democrat of state and then draw your own conclusion i certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name
democrat is clinton im campaigning because i think i have the right combination of what the country needs at this point and
democrat i think i can take the fight to the republicans because we cannot afford a republican to succeed barack obama as
democrat president of the united states well that thats exactly what ive been doing when we met in copenhagen in 2009 and
democrat literally president obama and i were hunting for the chinese going throughout this huge convention center because
democrat we knew we had to get them to agree to something because there will be no effective efforts against climate change
democrat unless china and india join with the rest of the world they told us theyd left for the airport we found out they
democrat were having a secret meeting we marched up we broke in we said weve been looking all over for you lets sit down and
democrat talk about what we need to do and we did come up with the first international agreement that china has signed thanks
democrat to president obamas leadership its now gone much further and i do think that the bilateral agreement that president
democrat obama made with the chinese was significant now it needs to go further and there will be an international meeting
democrat at the end of this year and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered
democrat there mmhmm well im surprised she says that because california has had a paid leave program for a number of years
democrat and its well but all well on a state level a state as big as many countries in the world and it has not had the ill
democrat effects that the republicans are always saying it will have and i think this is this is typical republican scare
democrat tactics we can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses i remember as a young
democrat mother you know having a baby wake up who was sick and im supposed to be in court because i was practicing law i
democrat know what its like and i think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face particularly
democrat working moms i see my good friend senator gillibrand in the front row shes been a champion of this we need to get
democrat a consensus through this campaign which is why im talking about it everywhere i go and we need to join the rest of
democrat the advanced world in having it well look you know when people say that its always the republicans or their sympathizers
democrat who say you cant have paid leave you cant provide health care they dont mind having big government to interfere with
democrat a womans right to choose and to try to take down planned parenthood theyre fine with big government when it comes
democrat to that im sick of it you know we can do these things we should not be paralyzed we should not be paralyzed by the
democrat republicans and their constant refrain big government this big government that that except for what they want to
democrat impose on the american people i know we can afford it because were going to make the wealthy pay for it that is the
democrat way to get it done no i think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana
democrat to find out a lot more than we know today i do support the use of medical marijuana and i think even there we need
democrat to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how were going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides
democrat relief so i think were just at the beginning but i agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning
democrat people who use marijuana therefore we need more states cities and the federal government to begin to address this
democrat so that we dont have this terrible result that senator sanders was talking about where we have a huge population
democrat in our prisons for nonviolent lowlevel offenses that are primarily due to marijuana well in addition to the nra the
democrat health insurance companies the drug companies the iranians probably the republicans thank you very much anderson
democrat and thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight i think what you did see is that in this debate we tried to deal
democrat with some of the very tough issues facing our country thats in stark contrast to the republicans who are currently
democrat running for president what you have to ask yourself
republican im ted cruz i am the son of an irishitalian mom and a cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to america
republican seeking freedom im a husband to my best friend heidi whos here tonight im a dad to two little girls who are the loves
republican of my life caroline and catherine if youre fed up with washington if youre looking for someone to stand up to career
republican politicians in both parties im the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again and if we stand together
republican we can bring america back well let me tell you jake the single biggest national security threat facing america right
republican now is the threat of a nuclear iran weve seen six and a half years of president obama leading from behind weakness
republican is provocative and this iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic this deal on its face will send over
republican 100 billion to the ayatollah khamenei making the obama administration the worlds leading financier of radical islamic
republican terrorism this deal abandons four american hostages in iran and this deal will only accelerate irans acquiring nuclear
republican weapons youd better believe it if i am elected president on the very first day in office i will rip to shreds this
republican catastrophic iranian nuclear deal well lets be clear when it comes to experience what president obama wants to do
republican is hes run to the united nations and he wants to use the united nations to bind the united states and take away our
republican sovereignty well i spent five and a half years as a solicitor general of texas the lead lawyer for the state in front
republican of the us supreme court and i went in front of the supreme court and took on the world court of the united nations
republican in a case called medellin v texas and we won a historic victory saying the world court and the un has no power to
republican bind the united states and no president of the united states republican or democrat has the authority to give away
republican our sovereignty and so if theres anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with iran theyre giving
republican up the core responsibility of commander in chief and as president i would never do that jake jake jake jake there
republican is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here and ive listened to several folks saying well gosh
republican if they cheat well act we wont know under this agreement there are several facilities in iran they designate as military
republican facilities that are off limit all together beyond that the other facilities we give them 24 days notice before inspecting
republican them that is designed to allow them to hide the evidence and most astonishingly this agreement trusts the iranians
republican to inspect themselves that makes no sense whatsoever and let me know president obama is violating federal law by
republican not handing over the side deals and we ought to see the united states congress stand up together and say hand over
republican this treaty and protect this country well let me tell you dana number one im proud to stand for life these planned
republican parenthood videos are horrifying i would encourage every american to watch the videos see seeing your planned parenthood
republican officials callously heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings and then ask yourself are these
republican my values these are horrifying on these videos planned parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies
republican it is a felony with ten years jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit thats what these videos
republican show planned parenthood doing absolutely we shouldnt be sending 500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing
republican criminal enterprise and ill tell you the fact that republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion
republican by preemptively surrendering to barack obama and saying well give in because obama threatens a veto you know obamas
republican committed to his principles his liberal principles he will fight for them he says i will veto any budget that doesnt
republican fund planned parenthood and republicans surrender we need to stop surrendering and start standing for our principles
republican well jake you know im im very glad that donald trumps being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally
republican to talk about illegal immigration i think thats very important i like and respect ben carson ill let him talk about
republican his own plans but i will say well dana ive known john roberts for 20 years hes amazingly talented lawyer but yes
republican it was a mistake when he was appointed to the supreme court hes a good enough lawyer that he knows in these obamacare
republican cases he changed the statute he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of americans for a
republican political outcome and you know were frustrated as conservatives we keep winning elections and then we dont get the
republican outcome we want and let me focus on two moments in time number one in 1990 in one room was david souter and in another
republican room was edith jones the rock ribbed conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals george herbert walker bush
republican appointed david souter and then in 2005 in one room was john roberts in another room was my former boss mike luttig
republican the rock ribbed conservative on the fourth circuit court of appeals george w bush appointed john roberts and let
republican me give you the consequences of that if instead the president bush had appointed edith jones and mike luttig which
republican is who i would have appointed obamacare would have been struck down three years ago and the marriage laws of all
republican 50 states would be on the books these matter and i fought to defend the constitution my whole life and i will as
republican president as well it is true that after george w bush nominated john roberts i supported his confirmation that was
republican a mistake and i regret that i wouldnt have nominated john roberts and indeed governor bush pointed out why it wasnt
republican that the president bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court its that it was the easier choice both david souter
republican and john roberts they didnt have a long paper trail if you had nominated edith jones or mike ludig you would have
republican had a bloody fight and they werent willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the
republican court i have spent my entire life starting from clerking for chief justice william rehnquist on the united states
republican supreme court one of the most principled jurists we have an outofcontrol court and i give you my word if im elected
republican president every single supreme court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings
republican imposing their liberal policies on millions of americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves i i am not and
republican and you mentioned that the us supreme court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms i was proud
republican to lead 31 states before the us supreme court defending the second amendment and we won that landmark victory and
republican indeed just a couple of years ago when harry reid and barack obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of
republican millions of americans i was proud to lead the fight in the united states senate to protect our right to keep and
republican bear arms and for that reason i was honored to be endorsed by gun owners of america as the strongest supporter of
republican the second amendment on this stage today and i will fight every day to defend the bill of rights well i wouldnt change
republican the 10 bill id change the 20 id take jackson off and id leave alexander hamilton right where he is as one of our
republican founding fathers and i very much agree with marco that it should be rosa parks she was a principled pioneer that
republican helped change this country helped remedy racial injustice and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate
republican you know as a cuban i might go with cohiba and ill tell you id go with for heidi angel because she is my angel ronald
republican reagan believed in america if im elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand
republican with them the bust of winston churchill will be back in the oval office and the american embassy in israel will be
republican in jerusalem enemies across this world will know the united states is not to be trifled with isis will be defeated
republican we will have a president willing to utter the words radical islamic terrorism and the ayatollah khamenei will understand
republican that he will never ever ever acquire nuclear weapons here at home well reignite the promise of america young people
republican coming out of school with student loans up to their eyeballs will find instead of no jobs two three four five job
republican opportunities how will that happen through tax reform well pass a simple flat tax and abolish the irs and through
republican regulatory reform we will repeal every word of obamacare you want to know what ill do as president it is real simple
republican well kill the terrorists well repeal obamacare and we will defend the constitution every single word of it
republican good evening my story from secretary to ceo is only possible in this nation and proves that everyone of us has potential
republican my husband frank of 30 years started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop we have come to a
republican pivotal point in our nations history where this nations possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government
republican grown so big so powerful so inept so corrupt and a political class that refuses to do anything about it i am prepared
republican to lead the resurgence of this great nation you know i think mr trump is a wonderful entertainer hes been terrific
republican at that business i also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability
republican judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure all of us will be revealed
republican over time and under pressure i look forward to a long race thats not for me to answer it is for the voters of this
republican country to answer and i have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the united states
republican of america jake ill tell you ill tell you why people are supporting outsiders its because you know what happens if
republican someones been in the system their whole life they dont know how broken the system is a fish swims in water it doesnt
republican know its water its not that politicians are bad people its that theyve been in that system forever the truth is 75
republican percent of the american people think the government is corrupt 82 percent of the american people think these problems
republican that have festered for 50 years in some cases 25 years in other cases the borders been insecure for 25 years 307000
republican veterans have died waiting for health care these things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the
republican status quo you know what a leader does they challenge the status quo they solve problems that have festered for a
republican long time and they produce results that is what my whole life has been about people know this is about far more than
republican replacing a d with an r this is about changing the system having having met vladimir putin if i may having met vladimir
republican putin i wouldnt talk to him at all weve talked way too much to him what i would do immediately is begin rebuilding
republican the sixth fleet i would begin rebuilding the missile defense program in poland i would conduct regular aggressive
republican military exercises in the baltic states id probably send a few thousand more troops into germany vladimir putin would
republican get the message by the way the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know general suleimanis
republican name is because russia is in syria right now because the head of the quds force traveled to russia and talked vladimir
republican putin into aligning themselves with iran and syria to prop up bashar al assad russia is a bad actor but vladimir
republican putin is someone we should not talk to because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the
republican other side and we have all of that within our control we could rebuild the sixth fleet i will we havent we could
republican rebuild the missile defense program we havent i will we could also to senator rubios point give the egyptians what
republican theyve asked for which is intelligence we could give the jordanians what theyve asked for bombs and materiel we have
republican not supplied it i will we could arm the kurds theyve been asking us for three years all of this is within our control
republican jake jake and then itll be my turn jake jake dana id like to dana i would like to link these two issues both of which
republican are incredibly important iran and planned parenthood one has something to do with the defense of the security of
republican this nation the other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation you have not heard a plan
republican about iran from any politician up here here is my plan on day one in the oval office i will make two phone calls
republican the first to my good friend to bibi netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state of israel the second to
republican the supreme leader to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime
republican anywhere inspections by our people not his we the united states of america will make it as difficult as possible
republican and move money around the global financial system we can do that we dont need anyones cooperation to do it and every
republican ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the united states in america is back in the leadership
republican business which is how we must stand with our allies as regards planned parenthood anyone who has watched this videotape
republican i dare hillary clinton barack obama to watch these tapes watch a fully formed fetus on the table its heart beating
republican its legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain this is about the character of
republican our nation and if we will not stand up in and force president obama to veto this bill shame on us you know its interesting
republican to me mr trump said that he heard mr bush very clearly and what mr bush said i think women all over this country
republican heard very clearly what mr trump said dana with all being said to mr trump immigration did not come up in 2016 because
republican mr trump brought it up we talked about it in 2012 we talked about it in 2008 we talked about it in 2004 we have been
republican talking about it for 25 years this is why people are tired of politicians first let me say we have just spent a good
republican bit of time discussing as republicans how to solve this problem i would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic
republican question why have democrats not solved this problem president obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration
republican problem he entered washington with majorities in the house and the senate he could have chosen to do anything to
republican solve this pro this problem instead he chose to do nothing why because the democrats dont want this issue solved
republican they want it to be an issue that they can use as to birthright citizenship the truth is you cant just wave your hands
republican and say the 14th amendment is gonna go away it will take an extremely arduous vote in congress followed by twothirds
republican of the states and if that doesnt work to amend the constitution then it is a long arduous process in court and meanwhile
republican what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years with all due respect mr trump weve been talking about
republican illegal immigration for 25 years san francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989 there are 300 of them and meanwhile
republican what has happened nothing the border remains insecure the legal immigration system remains broken look we know what
republican it takes to secure a border weve heard a lot of great ideas here money manpower technology mostly apparently leadership
republican the kind of leadership that understands how to get results but you you would stipulate mr trump but not everyone
republican agrees with you ok i led hewlett packard through a very difficult time the worst technology recession in 25 years
republican the nasdaq stock index fell 80 percent it took 15 years for the stock index to recover we had very strong competitors
republican who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process despite those difficult times we doubled
republican the size of the company we quadrupled its topline growth rate we quadrupled its cash flow we tripled its rate of
republican innovation yes we had to make tough choices and in doing so we saved 80000 jobs went on to grow to 160000 jobs and
republican now hewlett packard is almost 300000 jobs we went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every
republican market segment we must lead in this nation again and some tough calls are going to be required but as for the firing
republican i have been very honest about this from the day it happened when you challenge the status quo you make enemies i
republican made a few steve jobs told me that when he called me the day i was fired to say hey been there done that twice its
republican also true that the man that led my firing tom perkins just took out a fullpage ad in the new york times to say he
republican was wrong i was right i was a terrific ceo the board was dysfunctional and he thinks i will make a magnificent president
republican of the united states you know jeffrey sonnenfeld is a wellknown clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the
republican moment that i arrived at hewlett packard but honestly mr trump i find it quite rich that you would talk about this
republican you know there are a lot of us americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest
republican on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other peoples money that is in fact precisely
republican the way you ran your casinos you ran up mountains of debt as well as losses using other peoples money and you were
republican forced to file for bankruptcy not once not twice four times a record four times why should we trust you to manage
republican the finances of this nation any differently than you managed the finances of your casinos well well mr trump a track
republican record of leadership is not a game it is the issue in this election well i thought we had been hearing quite a bit
republican about govenor christies record as governor actually i think track records are very important i completely agree that
republican whats at stake here is the future of this nation and the future of every american but i do think that a track record
republican of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership and lets talk about what leadership is
republican its not about braggadocio it is about challenging the status quo solving problems producing results and the highest
republican calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others problems have festered in washington for too long and the
republican potential of this nation is being crushed you see governor christie people spend time talking about their track records
republican and mr trump and i have every right to do the same and mrs clinton has to defend her track record her track record
republican of lying about benghazi of lying about her e mails about lying about her servers she does not have a track record
republican of accomplishment like mrs clinton i too have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around the globe but unlike
republican mrs clinton i know flying is an activity not an accomplishment mrs clinton if you want to stump a democrat ask them
republican to name a accomplishment of mrs clintons we just spent we just spent the last 10 minutes jake since everyone has
republican gotten to weigh in on this military issue id like to be able to do the same we have spent probably 12 minutes talking
republican about the past lets talk about the future we need the strongest military on the face of the planet and everyone has
republican to know it and specifically what that means is we need about 50 army brigades we need about 36 marine battalions
republican we need somewhere between 300 and 350 naval ships we need to upgrade every leg of the nuclear triad we need to reform
republican the department of defense we need as well to invest in our military technology and we need to care for our veterans
republican so 307000 arent dying waiting for health care jake may i just say jake jake i very much hope i am the only person
republican on this stage who can say this but i know there are millions of americans out there who will say the same thing my
republican husband frank and i buried a child to drug addiction so we must invest more in the treatment of drugs i agree with
republican senator paul i agree with states rights but we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just
republican like having a beer its not and the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that jeb
republican bush smoked 40 years ago we do sorry barbara we do need we do need criminal justice reform we have the highest incarceration
republican rates in the world twothirds of the people in our prisons are there for nonviolent offenses mostly drug related its
republican clearly not working but we need to tell young people the truth drug addiction is an epidemic and it is taking too
republican many of our young people i know this sadly from personal experience i wouldnt change the 10 bill or the 20 bill i
republican think honestly its a gesture i dont think it helps to change our history what i would think is that we ought to recognize
republican that women are not a special interest group women are the majority of this nation we are half the potential of this
republican nation and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses secretariat
republican i think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by lady liberty and lady justice lady liberty stands tall
republican and strong she is cleareyed and resolute she doesnt shield her eyes from the realities of the world but she faces
republican outward into the world nevertheless as we always must and she holds her torch high because she knows she is a beacon
republican of hope in a very troubled world and lady justice lady justice holds a sword by her side because she is a fighter
republican a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great she holds a scale in her other hand
republican and with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of god and so all of us must be equal in the eyes of
republican the law and the government powerful and powerless alike and she wears a blindfold and with that blindfold she is
republican saying to us that it must be true it can be true that in this country in this century it doesnt matter who you are
republican it doesnt matter what you look like it doesnt matter how you start it doesnt matter your circumstances here in this
republican nation every americans life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their godgiven gifts one nation
republican under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all
republican im mike huckabee im delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow republicans none of us are a selfprofessed
republican socialist none of us on this state are under investigation by the fbi because we destroyed government records or
republican because we leaked secrets i know that there are some in the wallstreettowashington axis of power who speak of all
republican of us contemptuously but im here to say that i think we are in fact the a team we have some remarkable people and
republican in fact not only are we the a team we even have our own mr t who doesnt mind saying about others youre a fool and
republican im delighted to be here with all of these guys and would put any of them in an administration that i led thank you
republican very much i would certainly love to get in on this because i think the single ive been patiently waiting and im going
republican to just say this about iran because i think it is incredibly important this is really about the survival of western
republican civilization this is not just a little conflict with a middle eastern country that weve just now given over 100 billion
republican to the equivalent in us terms is 5 trillion this threatens israel immediately this threatens the entire middle east
republican but it threatens the united states of america and we cant treat a nuclear iranian government as if it is just some
republican government that would like to have power this is a government for 36 years has killed americans they kidnapped americans
republican they have maimed americans they have sponsored terrorist groups hamas and hezbollah and they threaten the very essence
republican of western civilization to give them this agreement that the president treats like the magna carta but iranians treat
republican it like its toilet paper and we must simply make it very clear that the next president one of us on this stage will
republican absolutely not honor that agreement and will destroy it and will be tough with iran because otherwise we put every
republican person in this world in a very dangerous place no i dont think hes on the wrong side of such an issue jeb is a friend
republican im not up here to fight with jeb or to fight with anybody else but i am here to fight for somebody who is a county
republican clerk elected under the kentucky constitution that 75 percent of the people of that state had voted for that said
republican that marriage was between a man and a woman the supreme court in a very very divided decision decided out of thin
republican air that they were just going to redefine marriage its a decision that the other justices in dissent said they didnt
republican have and there wasnt a constitutional shred of capacity for them to do it i thought that everybody here passed ninthgrade
republican civics the courts cannot legislate thats what roberts said but heck its what we learned in civics the courts cant
republican make a law they can interpret one they can review one they cant implement it they cant force it but heres what no
republican no let me finish this one thought jake i havent gotten that much time so im going to take just what little i can
republican here we made accommodation to the fort hood shooter to let him grow a beard we made accommodations to the detainees
republican at gitmo ive been to gitmo and ive seen the accommodations that we made to the muslim detainees who killed americans
republican youre telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected democrat county clerk from rowan county kentucky
republican what else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who
republican might be a fort hood shooter or a detainee at gitmo i have a different idea i think we ought to get rid of all the
republican taxes on people who produce why should we penalize productivity and its why im an unabashed supporter of the fair
republican tax which would be a tax on our consumption rather than a tax on our productivity in other words youre not going
republican to tax anybody for what they earn whether its worker whose working by the hour or whether its a hedge fund manager
republican if they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs we need some jobs and i think the fair tax
republican makes more sense now jake ive been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about
republican im the only one who has done this the only one who has done that ive done great things weve all done great things
republican or we wouldnt be on this stage but it occurs to me as were sitting here in the reagan library that most of us would
republican like to pay tribute to a guy who when he got elected didnt get elected telling everybody how great he was he got
republican elected telling everybody how great the american people were and he empowered them to live their dreams which is
republican what id love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a
republican gut punch right now you dont want me operating on you i assure you just today just today there was a new report that
republican 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials so
republican that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face i love the idea of a good intellectual capacity
republican to deal with our enemies but the fact is if you dont have good intelligence that is reliable and honest you wont
republican have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions the next president is primarily elected not just to know
republican things but to know what to do with the things that he knows and the most dangerous person in any room is the person
republican who doesnt know what he doesnt know and the reason barack obama has been dangerous to this country and we better
republican elect someone who had some executive experience is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in
republican the office who doesnt know what he does not know you better believe i will because im tired of liberals always having
republican a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we dont well let me tell you what mine would be number one
republican id ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue id want to know the answer
republican to that id want to know do you believe in the first amendment do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental
republican liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based and id want to know do you really believe in
republican the second amendment do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family
republican and to protect our country and do you believe in the fifth and the 14th amendment do you believe that a person before
republican theyre deprived of life and liberty should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law because if
republican you do youre going to do more than defund planned parenthood one final thing id make darn sure that we absolutely
republican believe the 10th amendment every governor on this stage would share this much with you every one of us our biggest
republican fight wasnt always with the legislature or even with the democrats my gosh half the time it was with the federal
republican government who apparently never understood that if its not reserved in the constitution then the 10th amendment says
republican its left to the states but somebody forgot to send a memo to washington jake jake i think we need to remember that
republican there are maybe some controversies about autism but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving
republican the medical costs in this country and i would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer
republican heart disease diabetes and alzheimers because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost
republican john kennedy said well go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back and we did it i grew up in the 50s i remember
republican the polio vaccine we saved billions of dollars since that time because we havent had to treat for polio why doesnt
republican this country focus on cures rather than treatment why dont we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the
republican cure for cancer for heart disease for diabetes and for alzheimers a disease alone that will cost us 11 trillion by
republican the year 2050 we change the economy and the country thats an easy one id put my wife on there ive been married to
republican her 41 years shes fought cancer and lived through it shes raised three kids five great grandkids and shes put up
republican with me i mean who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife and that way she could spend her own money
republican with her face id go with duck hunter at the end of my presidency i would like to believe that the world would be
republican a safe place and there wouldnt be the threats not only to the us but to israel and our allies because we would have
republican the most incredible welltrained wellequipped well prepared military in the history of mankind and they would know
republican that the commanderinchief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary but people wouldnt
republican bully us anymore because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction domestically we would
republican be operating under a tax system that eliminated the irs people wouldnt be punished for their work and for what they
republican produced and life would be really deemed precious abortion would be no more it would be as much of a scourge in our
republican past as slavery is and we would have a peaceful country where people respected each other and people respected law
republican enforcement and we would focus on cures and we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without but
republican safe from the enemies within and it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids
republican hello im john kasich the governor of ohio emma and reese my children and karen love ya girls thanks for watching
republican tonight by the way i think i actually flew on this plane with ronald reagan when i was a congressman and his goals
republican and mine really much are pretty much the same lift americans unify give hope grow america and restore it is to that
republican great shining city on a hill yes he was a great one and i learned much from watching him the most important thing
republican hope to americans unify lift everyone in america jake jake listen you know i if i were sitting at home and watch
republican thing back and forth i would be inclined to turn it off i mean people at home want to know across this country they
republican want to know what were going to do to fix this place how well balance a budget how were going to create more economic
republican growth how well pay down the debt what were going to do to strengthen the military so we just spent 10 minutes here
republican but but wait a minute its a lot of ad hogshead now i know that it may be buzzing out there but i think its important
republican we get to the issues because thats what people want and they dont want all this fighting yeah well well let me just
republican say this first of all i think its a bad agreement i would never have done it but you know a lot of our problems in
republican the world today is that we dont have the relationship with our allies if we want to go everywhere alone we will not
republican have the strength as if we could rebuild with our allies now this agreement we dont know whats going to happen in
republican 18 months i served on the defense committee for 18 years ive seen lots of issues in foreign affairs and foreign in
republican terms of global politics you have to be steady now heres the if they cheat we slap the sanctions back on if they
republican help hamas and hezbollah we slap the sanctions back on and if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon
republican than the military option is on the table we are stronger when we work with the western civilization our friends in
republican europe and just doing it on our own i dont think is the right policy no no no i want to i want to i want to say something
republican about what the senator just said no one is no let me let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the
republican world when our allies work with us president bush did it in the gulf war we work better when we are unified secondly
republican nobodys trusting iran they violate the deal we put on the sanctions and we have the high moral ground to talk to
republican our allies in europe to get them to go with us if they dont go with us we slap the sanctions on anyway if they fund
republican these radical groups that threaten israel and all of the west then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions
republican back on and let me make it clear let me make it clear if we think if we think theyre getting close to a to developing
republican a nuclear weapon and we get that information you better believe that i would do everything in my power as the commanderinchief
republican to stop them having a nuclear weapon we can have it and we can have our allies and we can be strong as a country
republican and we can project across this globe with unity not just doing it alone that is not what gets us where we want to
republican get as a nation well i agree that we should defund planned parenthood i dont know many people in america who dont
republican think that we should and in my state were trying to figure out how to get it done because we are threatened with
republican the federal government taking all of our medicaid money away i think there is a way to get this done by giving governors
republican the ability to be able to act to defund planned parenthood but when it comes to closing down the federal government
republican you gotta be very careful about that when we shut the government down if we have a chance at success and its a great
republican principle yes the president of the united states is not going to sign this and all were gonna do is shut the government
republican down and then were gonna open up open it up and the american people are gonna shake their heads and say whats the
republican story with these republicans so i think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for planned parenthood i
republican was in the congress for 18 years balanced the budget cut taxes got it done changed welfare went around the president
republican to get welfare reform done there are ways to do it without having to shut the government down but im sympathetic
republican to the fact that we dont want this organization to get funding and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family
republican planning in other organizations that dont support this tactic but i would not be for shutting the government down
republican because i dont think its going to work out were not what i can tell you is this we didnt surrender in new jersey
republican six years ago as the brand new first ever prolife governor of new jersey since roe versus wade i defended planned
republican parenthood and ive vetoed planned parenthood funding now eight times in new jersey since the day i walked in as governor
republican planned parenthood has not been funded in new jersey we stood up and every one of those vetoes has been sustained
republican but heres the problem were were fighting with each other up here we agree lets ask hillary clinton she believes in
republican the systematic murder of children in the womb to preserve their body parts dana in a way that maximizes their value
republican for sale for profit it is disgusting and the american people need to hear it we shouldnt be fighting with each other
republican shes the real opponent shes the real problem ill tell you what ill tell you what id be willing to fight for ill tell
republican you what id be willing to fight for why will we put tax reform on the presidents desk so we can simplify this tax
republican system no no its really important dana we got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for why dont we
republican put tax reform on this presidents desk and make him veto it if thats what he wants to do why havent we repealed and
republican replaced obamacare make him veto if thats what he wants to do theres a jake ok jake i dont at this point in terms
republican of changing the incentives for investment and risktaking but lets just stop for a second theres one person on this
republican stage that does have a record im the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led
republican the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget we also cut taxes and when i left
republican washington in 2000 we had a 5 trillion surplus and the economy was booming i had spent 10 years of my life to get
republican us to that point went out in the private sector was a great experience and went into ohio and took an 8 billion hole
republican and turned it into a 2 billion surplus weve had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor weve grown
republican well over 300000 jobs you see ive done it in both places im the only one here that has done it in both places it
republican took a lot to get us to a balanced budget it was legitimate it was real and we negotiated it a lot of what were talking
republican about here tonight as we take this position and that position you know what at the end of the day america has got
republican to work weve got to figure out how we come together to deal with this with our fiscal problems because when we deal
republican with that we create a stronger economy for everybody people have a chance to rise so you know when we think about
republican how we make a choice its the person that lands that plane its not somebody that talks about it its about the person
republican who has done it and ive done it in both places and i did it including people in the other party and thats how we
republican were successful and thats how i will be president using that experience to drive this country forward thank you well
republican look people still have to get to know me so i want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare
republican balancing budgets cutting taxes providing economic growth when i was in washington turning ohio around eight billion
republican in the hole 2 billion surplus up over 300000 jobs big tax cuts strengthening our credit all those things matter but
republican you know as a young man in my first election in 1978 i defeated an incumbent democrat i defeated an incumbent democrat
republican in 1982 running on the reagan program i was the only republican in america to defeat an incumbent democrat that year
republican and then when i won for election of governor i was the first republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years and the
republican first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent that hadnt happened for
republican 96 years so well get to the point where well talk about hillary clinton or whoever the nominee is record but right
republican now i want to give people sense of hope sense of purpose a sense of unity sense that we can do it so you know at
republican the end of the day im going to continue to talk about my record because there is did you ever notice when people
republican run for office they run for president they make a lot of promises they dont keep them i dont intend to do that and
republican i going to be out there pushing it out dont worry about me and hillary that will all work out and im from ohio she
republican will not beat me there i can promise you that can i just can i jake can i just make one point on this whole military
republican discussion i called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest
republican you know you win a battle with the military and when we go somewhere we need to be mobile and lethal we need to take
republican care of business and we need to come home but we face also a bigger war and you win the bigger war with the battle
republican of ideas you wonder why young people and educated people rich people schooled people have tried to join isis western
republican civilization all of us need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out and in
republican western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the jewish and christian principals force us to live
republican a life bigger than ourselves to make centers of justice so that we can battle the radicals call them out for what
republican they are and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in western civilization this is a giant battle
republican in the world today well its probably not maybe legal but i would pick mother theresa the lady that i had a chance
republican to meet a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own an inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility
republican to love our neighbor as we love ourselves well i have one now they call me unit one my wife says youll never be unite
republican one im unite one youre unit two well as president i will make this a nation that will solve problems and how by having
republican the elected officials and the leaders realize theyre americans before theyre republicans or democrats i did it in
republican washington and ive done it in ohio by having the elected officials realize that theyre ohioans before anything else
republican secondly i will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world we have no choice but
republican to do that we will be stronger when we are unified and well fight for freedom and for human rights and finally a
republican little bit of what carly said the people that are out there listening america was never great because we ran america
republican from the top down america is great because we have run america from the bottom up where we all live in the neighborhoods
republican one more time in america we need to revive the concept of citizenship where everybodys actions make a huge difference
republican in changing the world we have a holocaust memorial on our state house grounds and there is one line on there that
republican stands out all the time if youve saved one life youve changed the world we need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild
republican and reinspire our country thank you
democrat my name is martin omalley former mayor of baltimore former governor of maryland a life long democrat and most importantly
democrat a husband and a father my wife katie and i have four great kids grace and tara and william and jack and like you
democrat there is nothing we wouldnt do to give them healthier and better lives there are some things that i have learned
democrat to do better in life than others and after 15 years of executive experience i have learned how to be an effective
democrat leader whether it was raising the minimum wage making our public schools the best in america passing marriage equality
democrat the dream act and comprehensive gun safety legislation i have learned how to get things done because i am very clear
democrat about my principals thanks to president obama our country has come a long way since the wall street crash of 2008
democrat our countrys doing better we are creating jobs again but we elected a president not a magician and there is urgent
democrat work that needs to be done right now for there is a deep injustice an economic injustice that threatens to tear our
democrat country apart and it will not solve itself injustice does not solve itself what im talking about is this our middle
democrat class is shrinking our poor families are becoming poorer and 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we
democrat were 12 years ago we need new leadership and we need action the sort of action that will actually make wages go up
democrat again for all american families our economy isnt money its people its all of our people and so we must invest in
democrat our country and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families instead of settling
democrat our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt and we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change
democrat and make this threat our opportunity the future is what we make of it we are all in this together and the question
democrat in this election is whether you and i still have the ability to give our kids a better future i believe we do that
democrat is why i am running for president and i need your help thank you yes actually i believe what she said was that theres
democrat a lot of policies that have led to this unrest but anderson when i ran for mayor of baltimore in 1999 well lets talk
democrat about this a little bit one of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in baltimore
democrat was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38year low in the year prior to the freddie grays tragic death anderson
democrat when i ran for mayor of baltimore back in 1999 it was not because our city was doing well it was because we allowed
democrat ourselves to become the most violent addicted and abandoned city in america and i ran and promised people that together
democrat we could turn that around and we put our city on a path to reduce violent crime or part one crime by more than any
democrat other major city in america over the next 10 years i did not make our city immune to setbacks but i attended a lot
democrat of funerals including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a
democrat poor africanamerican neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner weve saved over
democrat a thousand lives in baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together and the vast majority of them were
democrat young and poor and black it wasnt easy on any day but we saved lives and we gave our city a better future improving
democrat police and community relations every single day that i was in office well i think the key word in your followup there
democrat was the word settle thats true it was settled arrests peaked in 2003 anderson but they declined every year after
democrat that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about
democrat their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime look none of this is easy none of us has all the
democrat answers but together as a city we saved a lot of lives it was about leadership it was about principle and it was
democrat about bringing people together thank you and anderson i also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership
democrat of my own party to get this done look its fine to talk about all of these things and im glad were talking about these
democrat things but ive actually done them we passed comprehensive gun safety legislation not by looking at the pollings or
democrat looking at what the polls said we actually did it and anderson here tonight in our audience are two people that make
democrat this issue very very real sandy and lonnie phillips are here from colorado and their daughter jessie was one of those
democrat who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in aurora now to try to transform their grief they went to court
democrat where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court but in this case you want to talk about a a rigged game
democrat senator the game was rigged a man had sold 4000 rounds of military ammunition to this this person that killed their
democrat daughter riddled her body with five bullets and he didnt even ask where it was going and not only did their case
democrat get thrown out of court they were slapped with 200000 in court fees because of the way that the nra gets its way
democrat in our congress and we take a backseat its time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation
democrat senator senator excuse me senator it is not about rural senator it was not about rural and urban have you ever been
democrat to the eastern shore have you ever been to western maryland we were able to pass this and still respect the hunting
democrat traditions of people who live in our rural areas and we did it by leading with principle not by pandering to the
democrat nra and backing down to the nra and i have an f from the nra senator well maybe thats a healthy thing anderson when
democrat the nra wrote to everyone in our state when the nra wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions
democrat lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is i wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually
democrat did and thats why not only did we pass it but the nra didnt dare to petition a referendum because we built a public
democrat consensus anderson no president no commander in chief should take the military option off the table even if most
democrat of us would agree that it should be the last option what disturbed people so much about and i would agree with senator
democrat sanders on this leading us into iraq under false pretenses and telling us as a people that there were weapons of
democrat mass destruction there was was one of the worst blunders in modern american history but the reason why people remain
democrat angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls and
democrat i remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion people were talking at and saying itll take us just a couple
democrat years to rebuild democracy and i thought has this world gone mad whenever we go and contrary to john quincy adams
democrat advice searching the world for monsters to destroy and when we use political might to take a at the expense of democratic
democrat principle we hurt ourselves and we hurt our i believe that as president i would not be so quick to pull for a military
democrat tool i believe that a nofly zone in syria at this time actually secretary would be a mistake you have to enforce
democrat nofly zones and i believe especially with the russian air force in the air it could lead to an escalation because
democrat of an accident that we would deeply regret i support president obama i think we have to play a long game and i think
democrat ultimately you want to talk about blunders i think assads invasion of syria will be seen as a blunder anderson i
democrat think we are learning anderson i think theres lessons to be learned from benghazi and those lessons are that we need
democrat to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next
democrat generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends and i believe thats
democrat what chris stevens was trying to do but he did not have the tools we have failed as a country to invest in the human
democrat intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in libya but better decisions in syria today and
democrat its a huge national security failing i believe that nuclear iran remains the biggest threat along with the threat
democrat of isil climate change of course makes cascading threats even more i believe that now that were finally having debates
democrat anderson that we dont have to be defined by the email scandal and how long what the fbis asking about instead we
democrat can talk about affordable college making college debt free and all the issues which is why and i see the chair of
democrat the dnc here look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the
democrat kitchen table we need to get wages to go up college more affordable we need to make american 100 percent clean electric
democrat by 2050 anderson the point that the black lives matter movement is making is a very very legitimate and serious point
democrat and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives people of color when i ran for mayor of
democrat baltimore and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year mostly young and poor and black and i said to our
democrat legislature at the time when i appeared in front of them as a mayor that if we were burying white young poor men
democrat in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a different reaction black lives matter and
democrat we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system and to address race relations in our country yes
democrat anderson i want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from vermont mentioned and i actually
democrat did them in our state we raised the minimum wage passed the living wage invested more in infrastructure went four
democrat years in a row without a pennys increase in college tuition but theres another piece that senator sanders left out
democrat tonight but hes been excellent about underscoring that and that is that we need to separate the casino speculative
democrat megabank gambling that we have to insure with our money from the commercial banking namely reinstating glasssteagall
democrat secretary clinton mentioned my support eight years ago and secretary i was proud to support you eight years ago but
democrat something happened in between and that is anderson a wall street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions
democrat of savings for families and we are still just as vulnerable paul volcker says today we need to reinstate glasssteagall
democrat and thats a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates anderson look this is the big banks i mean once
democrat we repealed glasssteagall back in the late 1999s the big banks the six of them went from controlling what the equivalent
democrat of 15 percent of our gdp to now 65 percent of our gdp and right before this debate secretary clintons campaign put
democrat out a lot of reversals on positions on keystone and many other things but one of them that we still have a great
democrat difference on madam secretary is that you are not for glasssteagall you are not for putting a firewall between this
democrat speculative risky shadow banking behavior i am and the people of our country need a president whos on their side
democrat willing to protect the main street economy from recklessness on wall street we have to fulfill our promise and juan
democrat carlos juan carlos juan carlos i think what youve heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform
democrat and thats why its gridlocked we need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival
democrat of new american immigrants that is why i have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform that is why i
democrat would go further than president obama has on daca and dapa i mean we are a nation of immigrants we are made stronger
democrat by immigrants do you think for a second that simply because somebodys standing in a broken que on naturalization
democrat theyre not going to go to the hospital and that care isnt going to fall on to our insurance rates i am for a generous
democrat compassionate america that says were all in this together we need comprehensive immigration reform itll make wages
democrat go up in america 250 for every year here here anderson we actually did this in my state of maryland we passed we
democrat passed a state version of the dream act and a lot of the xenophobes the immigrant haters like some that weve heard
democrat like donald trump that carnival barker in the republican party tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal
democrat immigrants but we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum and we won with 58 percent of
democrat the vote the more our children learn the more they will earn and thats true of children who have yet to be naturalized
democrat but will become american citizens anderson the nsa anderson snowden put a lot of americans lives at risk snowden
democrat broke the law whistleblowers do not run to russia and try to get protection from putin if he really believes that
democrat he should be back here i would follow through on the promise that the american people thought we made as democratic
democrat party to protect the main street economy from recklessness on wall street i would push to separate out these toobigtojail
democrat toobigtofail banks and put in place glasssteagall a modern glasssteagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage
democrat of our economy can never happen again anderson i actually have talked about a revolution what we need is a green
democrat energy revolution we need to move america to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs
democrat along the way well actually you know we had this conversation and i will share with you that ive traveled all around
democrat the country anderson and theres two phrases i keep hearing again and again and again and theyre the phrases new leadership
democrat and getting things done we cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where
democrat 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago and think that a resort to old names is going
democrat to move us forward i respect what secretary clinton and her husband have done for our country but our country needs
democrat new leadership to move forward yeah anna i have put forward a plan and im the only candidate i believe in either
democrat party to do this to move america forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 we did not land a man on the
democrat moon with an alloftheabove strategy it was an intentional engineering challenge and we solved it as a nation and
democrat our nation must solve this one so i put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and
democrat for wind if you go across iowa you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind were here in las vegas
democrat one of the most sustainable cities in america doing important things in terms of green building architecture and
democrat design we can get there as a nation but its going to require presidential leadership and as president i intend to
democrat sign as my very first order in office the an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving
democrat this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 we can do it anderson in our state we actually
democrat expanded family leave and i have to agree with secretary clinton and senator sanders look the genius of our nation
democrat is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country
democrat and we need to do that for our families and especially so that women arent penalized in having to drop out of the
democrat workforce my wife katie is here with our four kids and man that was a juggle when we had little kids and and keeping
democrat jobs and moving forwards we would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave juan carlos the national
democrat rifle association anderson thank you i am very very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished
democrat group of candidates tonight and what you heard tonight anderson was a very very and all of you watching at home was
democrat a very very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two presidential republican debates
democrat on this stage on this stage you didnt hear anyone denigrate women you didnt hear anyone make racist comments about
democrat new american immigrants you didnt hear anyone speak ill of another american because of their religious belief what
democrat you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward to
democrat move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050 to take the actions that we have always taken as americans
democrat so that we can actually attack injustice in our country employ more of our people rebuild our cities and towns educate
democrat our children at higher and better levels and include more of our people in the economic social and political life
democrat of our country i truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of american progress unless youve
democrat become discouraged about our gridlock in congress talk to our young people under 30 because youll never find among
democrat them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples that tells me we are moving
democrat to a more connected generous and compassionate place and we need to speak to the goodness within our country
republican good evening everyone im an eye surgeon from bowling green kentucky my wife kelly and i have been married for nearly
republican 25 years and i spend my days defending the constitution and the bill of rights i think theres nothing more important
republican than understanding that the constitution restrains government not the people thank you i kind of have to laugh when
republican i think of mmm sounds like a non sequitur he was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good
republican hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons and all of a sudden theres a sideways attack at me i think that really
republican goes to really the judgment do we want someone with that kind of character that kind of careless language to be negotiating
republican with putin do we want someone like that to be negotiating with iran i think really theres a sophomoric quality that
republican is entertaining about mr trump but i am worried im very concerned about him having him in charge of the nuclear weapons
republican because i think his response his his visceral response to attack people on their appearance short tall fat ugly my
republican goodness that happened in junior high are we not way above that would we not all be worried to have someone like
republican that in charge of the nuclear arsenal i think this goes back to essentially what weve been saying for the last two
republican or three questions carly fiorina also said were not going to talk with putin well think if reagan had said that during
republican the cold war we continued to talk with the russians throughout the cold war which is much more significant that where
republican we are now should we continue to talk with iran yes should we cut up the agreement immediately thats absurd wouldnt
republican you want to know if they complied now im going to vote against the agreement because i dont think theres significant
republican leverage but it doesnt mean that i would immediately not look at the agreement and cut it up without looking to see
republican if whether or not iran has complied the same goes with china i dont think we need to be rash i dont think we need
republican to be reckless and i think need to leave lines of communication open often we talk about whether we should be engaged
republican in the world or disengaged in the world and i think this is an example of some who want to isolate us actually and
republican not be engaged we do need to be engaged with russia it doesnt mean we give them a free pass or china a free pass
republican but to be engaged to continue to talk we did throughout the cold war and it would be a big mistake not to do it here
republican i think this gets to the point of wisdom on when to intervene and when we shouldnt had we bombed assad at the time
republican like president obama wanted and like hillary clinton wanted and many republicans wanted i think isis would be in
republican damascus today i think isis would be in charge of syria had we bombed assad sometimes both sides of the civil war
republican are evil and sometimes intervention sometimes makes us less safe this is real the debate we have to have in the middle
republican east every time we have toppled a secular dictator we have gotten chaos the rise of radical islam and were more at
republican risk so i think we need to think before we act and know most interventions if not a lot of them in the middle east
republican have actually backfired on us well i hate to say it but donald trump has a bit of a point here the case that was
republican decided around 1900 was people had a green card were here legally and they said that their children were citizens
republican theres never been a direct supreme court case on people who were here illegally whether or not their kids are citizens
republican so it hasnt really been completely adjudicated the 14th amendment says that those who are here and under the jurisdiction
republican the original author of the of the 14th amendment said on the senate floor that this was applying to slaves and did
republican not specifically apply to others well im glad were having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that
republican we lose jobs overseas we have our companies and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70000 page tax code so thats
republican why ive chosen to get rid of the whole thing and have one single rate 14 and ahalf percent for everybody business
republican and for corporate income and personal income but we also get rid of the payroll tax so the working class would get
republican a tax break as well so i think a flat tax eliminating the tax code getting rid of all the loopholes is the way to
republican go and its the way we get america going again hugh can i can i make a response to that can i make a response to that
republican may i make a response to that hes referred to me hes referred to me in his remarks may i make a response absolutely
republican go ahead may i respond the remark was made that there hadnt been anyone else on the podium opposed to the iraq war
republican ive made my career as being an opponent of the iraq war i was opposed to the syria war i was opposed to arming people
republican who are our enemies iran is now stronger because hussein is gone hussein was the great bulwark and counterbalance
republican to the iranians so when we complain about the iranians you need to remember that the iraq war made it worse originally
republican governor bush was asked was the iraq war a mistake and he said no wed do it again we have to learn sometimes the
republican interventions backfire the iraq war backfired and did not help us were still paying the repercussions of a bad decision
republican we have make the decision now in syria should we topple assad many up here wanted to topple assad and its like i
republican said no because if you do isis will now be in charge of syria if you want boots on the ground and you want them to
republican be our sons and daughters you got 14 other choices there will always be a bush or clinton for you if you want to
republican go back to war in iraq but the thing is the first war was a mistake and im not sending our sons and our daughters
republican back to iraq the war didnt work we can amplify those who live there the kurds deserve to be armed and ill arm them
republican we can use our air force to amplify the forces there but the boots on the ground need to be the people who live there
republican my goodness im still upset with the saudi arabians for everything they do over there theyve funded the arms that
republican went to the jihadists theyre not accepting any of the people any of the migrants that have been the refugees that
republican are being pushed out of syria saudi arabia is not accepting one why are we always the worlds patsies that we have
republican to go over there and fight their wars for them they need to fight their wars we need to defend american interests
republican but it is not in americas national security interests to have another war in iraq i think one of the great problems
republican and what american people dont like about politics is hypocrisy people have one standard for others and not for them
republican for themselves there is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they smoked pot in high school
republican and yet the people going to to jail for this are poor people often africanamericans and often hispanics and yet the
republican rich kids who use drugs arent i personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the individual
republican and i think that america has to take a different attitude i would like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration
republican im a fan of the drug courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail but the bottom line is
republican the states we say we like the 10th amendment until we start talking about this and i think the federal government
republican has gone too far i think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome and really has been something that has really
republican damaged our inner cities not only do the drugs damage them we damage them again by incarcerating them and then preventing
republican them from getting employment over time so i dont think that the federal government should override the states i believe
republican in the 10th amendment and i really will say that the states are left to themselves well i think if we left it open
republican we could see how many people smoked pot in high school well you know the thing is that yeah i was talking about well
republican let me but let me respond the thing is is that in florida governor bush campaigned against medical marijuana that
republican means that a small child like morgan hintz that has seizures is day is failing on nontraditional medications is not
republican allowed to use cannabis oil and if they do that in florida they will take the child away they will put the parents
republican in jail and thats what that means if youre against allowing people use medical marijuana youll actually put them
republican in jail and actually under the current circumstances kids who had privilege like you do dont go to jail but the poor
republican kids in our inner cities go to jail i dont think thats fair and i think we need to acknowledge it and it is hypocritical
republican to still want to put poor people in jail well you vote you oppose medical marijuana but that means youll put people
republican in jail may i respond understand what theyre saying if theyre going to say we are going to enforce the federal law
republican against what the state law is they arent really believing in the tenth amendment governor christie would go into
republican colorado and if youre breaking any federal law on marijuana even though the state law allows it he would put you
republican in jail if a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical marijuana for seizure treatment he
republican would put her in jail if it violates federal law i would let colorado do what the tenth amendment says this power
republican we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level crime was supposed to be left to the states colorado
republican has made their decision and i dont want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail who are trying
republican to get medicine for their kid may i respond may i respond here is the thing he doesnt want to make it about medical
republican marijuana but what if new jerseys medical marijuana contradicts the federal law hes saying hell send the federal
republican government in and he will enforce the federal law thats not consistent with the tenth amendment it is not consistent
republican with states rights and it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country i dont think we should be
republican sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their
republican child for seizures if you want a skeptic if you want a skeptic jake i will happily jump into that briar patch if
republican you want a real a second opinion one of the greatest one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was were
republican the vaccines particularly for smallpox and if you want to read a story its called the speckled monster its an amazing
republican story it was all done voluntary but people came in by the droves george washington wouldnt let his wife visit until
republican she got vaccinated so im all for vaccines but im also for freedom im also a little concerned about how theyre bunched
republican up my kids had all of their vaccines and even if the science doesnt say bunching them up is a problem i ought to
republican have the right to spread out my vaccines out a little bit at the very least ooh thats a tough one you know im big
republican on that we were and i love what carly said about womens suffrage i think susan b anthony might be a good choice justice
republican never sleeps i met ronald reagan as a teenager and my family were big supporters of him when he ran against gerald
republican ford it was a big deal because he was the grassroots running against the establishment and ill never forget that
republican and how he stood up and said you know what this is something new that our country needs and our party needs if i
republican were president i would try to be one who says you know what im a reagan conservative im someone who believes in peace
republican through strength and i would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace and that war is the
republican last resort not the first resort and that when we go to war we go to war in a constitutional way which means that
republican we have to vote on it that war is initiated by congress not by the president that we go to war electively that when
republican we go to war we dont fight with one arm tied behind our back we fight all out to win but then we come home
republican thank you my name is marco rubio im from florida my wife jeanette and i are the proud weve been married 17 years
republican and were the proud parents of four children two of whom were able to join us here this evening im honored to be here
republican at the reagan library at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service
republican but also our love for country and im also aware that california has a drought and so thats why i made sure i brought
republican my own water well first of all i have an understanding of exactly what it is russia and putin are doing and its pretty
republican straightforward he wants to reposition russia once again as a geopolitical force he himself said that the destruction
republican of the soviet union the fall of the soviet union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century and
republican now hes trying to reverse that hes trying to destroy nato and this is what this is a part of he is exploiting a vacuum
republican that this administration has left in the middle east heres what youre gonna see in the next few let me tell you i
republican will tell you we have zero responsibility because lets remember what the president said he said the attack he would
republican conduct would be a pinprick well the united states military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks if the united
republican states military is going to be engaged by a commanderinchief it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win and
republican were not going to authorize use of force if youre not put in a position where they can win and quite frankly people
republican dont trust this president as commanderinchief because of that hold on a second jake he asked me as well id like to
republican actually respond i think im the first senator the no 1 test for use of military force should be the vital national
republican security interest of the united states the reason why i opposed president obama bombing syria is because he couldnt
republican answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical islamic terrorists like alnusra
republican like al qaida like isis now i also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this iranian
republican deal see if the iranians will comply anyone who is paying attention to what khamenei says knows that they will not
republican comply there is a reason khamenei refers to israel as the little satan and america as the great satan in the middle
republican of negotiating this treaty khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting death to america im reminded of a great
republican editorial cartoon it shows the ayatollah khamenei saying death to all americans and then it shows john kerry coming
republican back saying can we meet ya half way we need a commanderinchief who will stand up and protect this country and ill
republican tell you i cant wait to stand on that debate stage with hillary clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote
republican for hillary you are voting for the ayatollah khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president
republican under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to america ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear
republican weapon ms dana i agree that english is the unifying language of our country and everyone should learn to speak it
republican its important i want to tell you a story about someone that didnt speak english that well it was my grandfather he
republican came to this country in the 1960s as a escaping cuba and he lived with us growing up and my grandfather loved america
republican he understood what was so special about this country he loved ronald reagan he would be very proud of the fact that
republican were here this evening my grandfather instilled in me the belief that i was blessed to live in the one society in
republican all of human history where even i the son of a bartender and a maid could aspire to have anything and be anything
republican that i was willing to work hard to achieve but he taught me that in spanish because it was the language he was most
republican comfortable in and he became a conservative even though he got his news in spanish and so i do give interviews in
republican spanish and heres why because i believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people
republican who are trying to achieve upward mobility and if they get their news in spanish i want them to hear that directly
republican from me not from a translator at univision well let me say that legal immigration is not an issue i read about in
republican the newspaper immigration illegal immigration all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well
republican i live with my familys immigrants my neighbors are all immigrants my inlaws are all immigrants so ive seen every
republican aspect of it and i can tell you america doesnt have one immigration problem it has three first despite the fact that
republican we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally we have people
republican still coming illegally second we have a legal immigration system that no longer works it primary is built on the
republican basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit and third we have 11 million or 12 million people
republican many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally and we must deal with all three
republican of these problems we cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation i learned that
republican we tried it that way heres the way will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone whos been
republican here and isnt a criminal if youre a criminal obviously you will not be able to stay yes well it does but its in the
republican following way this is an important question i think if youre running for president these are important issues because
republican look at around the world today there is a lunatic in north korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and longrange rocket
republican that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight the chinese are rapidly expanding their military they
republican hack into our computers theyre building artificial islands in the south china sea the most important shipping lane
republican in the world a gangster in moscow is not just threatening europe hes threatening to destroy and divide nato you have
republican radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents and they even recruit americans using social
republican media to try to attack us here at home and now we have got this horrible deal with iran where a radical shia cleric
republican with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a longrange
republican rocket that can hit the united states these are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in and the next president
republican of the united states better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the
republican number one issue that a president will ever confront and the most important obligation that the federal government
republican has is to keep this nation safe and today we are not doing that we are eviscerating our military and we have a president
republican that is more respectful to the ayatollah in iran than he is to the prime minister of israel well thats why we have
republican a debate i think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues because there is no more important decision
republican that a president will make well you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president
republican will confront because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day not six months from now not a year
republican from now on the first day in office our president could very well confront a national security crisis you cant predict
republican it sometimes you cannot control it and it is the most the federal government does all kinds of things its not supposed
republican to be doing it regulates bathrooms it regulates schools that belong to local communities but the one thing that the
republican federal government must do the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe and a president
republican better be uptodate on those issues on his first day in office on her first day in office trust me i get that ok i
republican never get to addressed and and when i do im gonna jump in yeah he did let me im proud to serve in the united states
republican senate you know when i ran five years ago the entire leadership of my party in washington lined up against me but
republican im glad i won and im glad that i ran because this countrys headed in the wrong direction and if we keep electing
republican the same people nothing is going to change and youre right i have missed some votes and ill tell you why mr trump
republican because in my years in the senate ive figured out very quickly that the political establishment in washington dc
republican in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people you have millions of people in
republican this country living paycheck to paycheck and nothing is being done about it we are about to leave our children with
republican 18 trillion in in in debt and theyre about to raise the debt limit again we have a world that grows increasingly
republican dangerous and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with iran and these if this thing continues
republican we are going to be the first americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves thats why im missing votes
republican because i am leaving the senate im not running for reelection and im running for president because i know i want
republican to go even deeper and i want to go even deeper in that direction because i think the belief that somehow by retreating
republican america makes the world safer has been disproven every single time its ever been tried syrias a perfect example of
republican it the uprising in syria was not started by the united states it was started by the syrian people and i warned at
republican the time this was three and a half years ago i openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements
republican on the ground that we could equip and arm that void would be filled by radical jihadists well the president didnt
republican listen the administration didnt follow through and thats exactly what happened that is why isis grew that is why
republican isis then came over the border from syria and back into iraq what is happening in that region is the direct consequence
republican of the inability to lead and of disengagement and the more we disengage the more airplanes from moscow youre going
republican to see flying out of damascus and out of syria as you asked earlier today but radical terrorism cannot be solved
republican by intellect it cannot they require what they need is they need an operating space thats what afghanistan was for
republican al qaida it was a vacuum that they filled and they created an operating space thats why they had to be drawn out
republican of there thats why they had to be destroyed it is the reason why isis has grown as well we allowed them we allowed
republican a vacuum to emerge in syria they used it as an operating space to grow and today theyre not just in iraq and syria
republican anymore theyre now in libya conducting operations in the sinai theyre now in afghanistan trying to supplant the taliban
republican as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there as well you cannot allow radical jihadists to have
republican an operating safe haven anywhere in the world theres a broader issue here hugh and theres a broader issue here as
republican well first of all the only people that follow the law are lawabiding people criminals by definition ignore the law
republican so you can pass all the gun laws in the world like the left wants the criminals are going to ignore it because they
republican are criminals heres the real issue the real issue the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence
republican but why are they committing the violence and heres the well and today we have a leftwing government under this president
republican that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values because were
republican not going to destroy our economy the way the leftwing government that we are under now wants to do were not going
republican to well and i dont he may have lined up with their positions on this issue but here is the bottom line every proposal
republican they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in america that will make it harder
republican to create jobs in america single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families
republican maybe a billionaire here in california can afford an increase in their utility rates but a working family in tampa
republican florida or anywhere across this country cannot afford it so we are not going to destroy our economy we are not going
republican to make america a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing nothing
republican to change our climate to change our weather because america is a lot of things the greatest country in the world
republican absolutely but america is not a planet and we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore china is and theyre
republican drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of so the bottom line is i am not in favor
republican of any policies that make america a harder place for people to live or to work or to raise their families jake you
republican mentioned me and called me a denier let me say climate change ok a skeptic you can measure the climate you can measure
republican it thats not the issue were discussing here is what im skeptical of im skeptical of the decisions that the left wants
republican us to make because i know the impact those are going to have and theyre all going to be on our economy they will
republican not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea they will not do a thing to cure the drought here in california but what
republican they will do is they will make america a more expensive place to create jobs and today with millions of people watching
republican this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how theyre going to pay their bills at the
republican end of this month im not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family senator
republican rubio you mean i know we all look alike the rosa parks an everyday american that changed the course of history well
republican there are some people in florida upset at me over a joke i made about florida state but what the heck i want my codename
republican to be gator one of the things that made ronald reagan a great president is that he understood that america was a
republican unique nation like any other that had existed throughout human history he knew it was founded on universal principles
republican that were powerful the dignity of all people human rights the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty and choose
republican their own path in life he didnt just believe it he acted on it thats why bringing down communism was so important
republican to him if im honored with the opportunity to be president i hope that our air force one will fly first and foremost
republican to our allies in israel in south korea and japan they know we stand with them that america can be counted on it would
republican also fly to china not just to meet with our enemies not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there
republican but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within china i would even invite them to my inauguration
republican we would also fly into moscow and into russia and not just meet with the leaders of russia but also meet with those
republican who aspire to freedom and liberty in russia and ultimately i hope that my air force one if i become president will
republican one day land in a free cuba where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny
democrat anderson thank you very much i think most americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented
democrat crises the middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing millions of americans are working
democrat longer hours for lower wages and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one
democrat percent as a result of this disastrous citizens united supreme court decision our campaign finance system is corrupt
democrat and is undermining american democracy millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the
democrat political process in order to fund super pacs and to elect candidates who represent their interests not the interests
democrat of working people today the scientific community is virtually well were gonna win because first were gonna explain
democrat what democratic socialism is and what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the
democrat top onetenth of 1 percent in this country own almost 90 percent almost own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90
democrat percent that it is wrong today in a rigged economy that 57 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent
democrat that when you look around the world you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right
democrat except the united states you see every other major country saying to moms that when you have a baby were not gonna
democrat separate you from your newborn baby because we are going to have we are gonna have medical and family paid leave
democrat like every other country on earth those are some of the principles that i believe in and i think we should look to
democrat countries like denmark like sweden and norway and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people
democrat well first of all lets look at the facts the facts that are very simple republicans win when there is a low voter
democrat turnout and that is what happened last november sixtythree percent of the american people didnt vote anderson eighty
democrat percent of young people didnt vote we are bringing out huge turnouts and creating excitement all over this country
democrat democrats at the white house on down will win when there is excitement and a large voter turnout and that is what
democrat this campaign is doing do i consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and
democrat so many have so little by which wall streets greed and recklessness wrecked this economy no i dont i believe in a
democrat society where all people do well not just a handful of billionaires i think everybody is in agreement that we are
democrat a great entrepreneurial nation we have got to encourage that of course we have to support small and mediumsized businesses
democrat but you can have all of the growth that you want and it doesnt mean anything if all of the new income and wealth
democrat is going to the top 1 percent so what we need to do is support small and mediumsized businesses the backbone of our
democrat economy but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake not just for billionaires lets
democrat begin anderson by understanding that bernie sanders has a dminus voting rating from the nra lets also understand
democrat that back in 1988 when i first ran for the united states congress way back then i told the gun owners of the state
democrat of vermont and i told the people of the state of vermont a state which has virtually no gun control that i supported
democrat a ban on assault weapons and over the years i have strongly avoided instant background checks doing away with this
democrat terrible gun show loophole and i think weve got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw
democrat man purchasers also i believe and ive fought for to understand that there are thousands of people in this country
democrat today who are suicidal who are homicidal but cant get the healthcare that they need the mental healthcare because
democrat they dont have insurance or theyre too poor i believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has
democrat got to get mental health counseling immediately of course not this was a large and complicated bill there were provisions
democrat in it that i think made sense for example do i think that a gun shop in the state of vermont that sells legally a
democrat gun to somebody and that somebody goes out and does something crazy that that gun shop owner should be held responsible
democrat i dont on the other hand where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals
democrat or aiding and abetting that of course we should take action as a senator from a rural state what i can tell secretary
democrat clinton that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what i would hope all of us want and that is keep guns
democrat out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing i believe
democrat that there is a consensus in this country a consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background
democrat checks do away with this gun show loophole that we have to address the issue of mental health that we have to deal
democrat with the strawman purchasing issue and that when we develop that consensus we can finally finally do something to
democrat address this issue i think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and i think we
democrat have to take another look at it but here is the point governor we can raise our voices but i come from a rural state
democrat and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states whether we like it or not our job
democrat is to bring people together around strong commonsense gun legislation i think there is a vast majority in this country
democrat who want to do the right thing and i intend to lead the country in bringing our people together its exactly about
democrat rural governor well as somebody who has a dminus voting record i dont think i am pandering but you have not been
democrat in the united states congress and when you want to check it out and if you think if you think that we can simply
democrat go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing people together you are sorely mistaken excuse me i want
democrat to make well lets understand that when we talk about syria youre talking about a quagmire in a quagmire youre talking
democrat about groups of people trying to overthrow assad other groups of people fighting isis youre talking about people
democrat who are fighting isis using their guns to overthrow assad and vice versa im the former chairman of the senate veterans
democrat committee and in that capacity i learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war and i will do everything that
democrat i can to make sure that the united states does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in iraq the worst
democrat foreign policy blunder in the history of this country we should be putting together a coalition of arab countries
democrat who should be leading the effort we should be supportive but i do not support american ground troops in syria let
democrat me just respond to something the secretary said first of all she is talking about as i understand it a nofly zone
democrat in syria which i think is a very dangerous situation could lead to real problems second of all i heard the same evidence
democrat from president bush and dick cheney and don rumsfeld about why we should overthrow saddam hussein and get involved
democrat in the i would urge people to go to berniesanderscom hear what i said in 2002 and i say without any joy in my heart
democrat that much of what i thought would happen about the destabilization in fact did happen so i think i think the president
democrat is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here and that is to support those people who are against assad against
democrat isis without getting us on the ground there and thats the direction i believe we should have well obviously i voted
democrat when president clinton said lets stop ethnic cleansing in kosovo i voted for that i voted to make sure that osama
democrat bin laden was held accountable in afghanistan when our country is threatened or when our allies are threatened i
democrat believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country i do not support the
democrat united states getting involved in unilateral action i dont believe that any pardon me well i think mr putin is going
democrat to regret what he is doing i think that when he gets into that well i think hes already regretting what he did in
democrat crimea and what he is doing in the ukraine i think he is really regretting the decline of his economy and i think
democrat what he is trying to do now is save some face but i think when russians get killed in syria and when he gets bogged
democrat down i think the russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home maybe they should
democrat start working with the united states to rectify the situation now well first of all let me applaud my good friend
democrat jim webb for his service to this country in so many ways jim and i under jims leadership as he indicated passed the
democrat most significant veterans education bill in recent history we followed suit with a few years later passing under
democrat my leadership the most significant veterans health care legislation in the modern history of this country when i
democrat was a young man im not a young man today when i was a young man i strongly opposed the war in vietnam not the brave
democrat men like jim who fought in that war but the policy which got us involved in that war that was my view then i am not
democrat a pacifist anderson i supported the war in afghanistan i supported president clintons effort to deal with ethnic
democrat cleansing in kosovo i support air strikes in syria and what the president is trying to do yes i happen to believe
democrat from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy but yes i am
democrat prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary the scientific community is telling us that if we do
democrat not address the global crisis of climate change transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable
democrat energy the planet that were going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable that is
democrat a major crisis let me say this let me say let me say something that may not be great politics but i think the secretary
democrat is right and that is that the american people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails you know the middle
democrat class anderson and let me say something about the media as well i go around the country talk to a whole lot of people
democrat middle class in this country is collapsing we have 27 million people living in poverty we have massive wealth and
democrat income inequality our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs the american people want to know whether
democrat were going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of citizens union enough of the emails lets talk about
democrat the real issues facing america black lives matter and the reason the reason those words matter is the african american
democrat community knows that on any given day some innocent person like sandra bland can get into a car and then three days
democrat later shes going to end up dead in jail or their kids are going to get shot we need to combat institutional racism
democrat from top to bottom and we need major major reforms in a broken criminal justice system in which we have more people
democrat in jail than china and i intended to tackle that issue to make sure that our people have education and jobs rather
democrat than jail cells well first of all lets remember where we were when bush left office we were losing 800000 jobs a
democrat month and i know my republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue but the worlds financial crisis was
democrat on the worlds financial markets system was on the verge of collapse thats where we were are we better off today than
democrat we were then absolutely but the truth is that for the 40 years the great middle class of this country has been disappearing
democrat and in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure raise the
democrat minimum wage to 15 an hour pay equity for women workers and our disastrous trade policies which have cost us millions
democrat of jobs and make every public college and university in this country tuition free well thats not true let us be clear
democrat that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of wall street where fraud is a business model helped to destroy
democrat this economy and the lives of millions of people check the record in the 1990s and all due respect in the 1990s when
democrat i had the republican leadership and wall street spending billions of dollars in lobbying when the clinton administration
democrat when alan greenspan said what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge bernie sanders fought them
democrat and helped lead the opposition to deregulation today it is my view that when you have the three largest banks in
democrat america are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail we have got to break them
democrat up i will just a second ill tell him in my view secretary clinton you do not congress does not regulate wall street
democrat wall street regulates congress and we have gotta break off these banks going to them and saying please do the right
democrat thing is kind of naive well i remember that meeting very well i remember it like it was yesterday hank paulson bernanke
democrat came in and they say guys the economy is going to collapse because wall street is going under its gonna take the
democrat economy with them and you know what i said to hank paulson i said hank your guys you come from goldman sachs your
democrat millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem how about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying
democrat for the bailout not working families in this country so to answer your question no i would not have let the economy
democrat collapse but it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out wall street and by the way i want wall street now to
democrat help kids in this country go to college public colleges and universities free with a wall street speculation tax
democrat well let me tell you donald trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot
democrat more in taxes today taxes in the future than theyre paying today but in terms of education this is what i think this
democrat is the year 2015 a college degree today dana is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago and
democrat what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high
democrat school education regardless of the income of their family i think we have to say that is true for everybody going
democrat to college i think we dont need a complicated system which the secretary is talking about the income goes down the
democrat income goes down if youre poor you have to work and so forth and so on i pay for my program by the way through a
democrat tax on wall street speculation which will not only make public colleges and universities tuitionfree it will substantially
democrat lower interest rates on college debt a major crisis in this country in order to make it possible for them to afford
democrat their education and i want colleges to get their costs down they are outrageously high in what theyre charging when
democrat the republicans when the republicans in the congress and some democrats were talking about cutting social security
democrat and benefits for disabled veterans for the socalled chained cpi i founded a caucus called the defending social security
democrat caucus my view is that when you have millions of seniors in this country trying to get by and i dont know how they
democrat do on 11000 12000 13000 a year you dont cut social security you expand it and the way you expand it is by lifting
democrat the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the
democrat system as somebody making 118000 you do that social security is solvent until 2061 and you can expand benefits i
democrat didnt leave anybody at the altar i voted against that piece of legislation because it had guestworker provisions
democrat in it which the southern poverty law center talked about being semislavery guest workers are coming in theyre working
democrat under terrible conditions but if they stand up for their rights theyre thrown out of the country i was not the only
democrat progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason tom harkin a very good friend of hillary clintons and
democrat mine one of the leading labor advocates also voted against that i know that but point being is that progressives
democrat did vote against that for that reason my view right now and always has been is that when you have 11 million undocumented
democrat people in this country we need comprehensive immigration reform we need a path toward citizenship we need to take
democrat people out of the shadows well i was chairman for two years and when i was chairman we did take action what we did
democrat is pass a 15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many many new doctors and nurses into the va so
democrat that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it and not be on long waiting lines and
democrat the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a va facility that
democrat veteran could get health care from the community health center or the private sector as a result of that legislation
democrat we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country
democrat who put their lives on the line to defend them it was 99 to one and i was maybe the one i dont know im sorry absolutely
democrat of course well i would shut down make id shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in
democrat this country ends up in a file at the nsa that is unacceptable to me but its not just government surveillance i think
democrat the government is involved in our emails is involved in our websites corporate america is doing it as well if we
democrat are a free country we have the right to be free yes we have to defend ourselves against terrorism but there are ways
democrat to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights i think snowden played a very important
democrat role in educating the american people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are
democrat being undermined he did he did break the law and i think there should be a penalty to that but i think what he did
democrat in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is i have a lot of respect for president obama i have
democrat worked with him time and time again on many many issues but heres where i do disagree i believe that the power of
democrat corporate america the power of wall street the power of the drug companies the power of the corporate media is so
democrat great that the only way we really transform america and do the things that the middle class and working class desperately
democrat need is through a political revolution when millions of people begin to come together and stand up and what i mean
democrat is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world not one of the lowest we need to raise public
democrat consciousness we need the american people to know whats going on in washington in a way that today they do not know
democrat and when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest
democrat then we could bring the kind of change we need i think i think that there is profound frustration all over this country
democrat with establishment politics i am the only candidate running for president who is not a billionaire who has raised
democrat substantial sums of money and i do not have a super pac i am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires
democrat and in fact tonight in terms of what a political revolution is about there are 4000 house parties 100000 people in
democrat this country watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country well i will tell you this i believe
democrat and pope francis made this point this is a moral issue the scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely
democrat boldly i am proud that along with senator barbara boxer a few years ago we introduced the first piece of climate
democrat change legislation which called for a tax on carbon and let me also tell you that nothing is gonna happen unless
democrat we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform because the fossil fuel industry is funding the republican party
democrat which denies the reality of climate change and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively this is a moral
democrat issue we have got to be extremely aggressive in working with china india russia the planet the future of the planet
democrat is at stake yeah dana heres the i suspect i would vote yes and i would vote yes because i am seeing in this country
democrat too many lives being destroyed for nonviolent offenses we have a criminal justice system that lets ceos on wall street
democrat walk away and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana i think we
democrat have to think through this war on drugs which has done an enormous amount of damage we need to rethink our criminal
democrat justice system we weve got a lot of work to do in that area the republican party since ive been in the senate and
democrat since president obama has been in office has played a terrible terrible role of being total obstructionists every
democrat effort that he has made that some of us have made they have said no no no now in my view the only way we can take
democrat on the right wing republicans who are by the way i hope will not continue to control the senate and the house when
democrat one of us elected president but the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together
democrat if we want free tuition at public colleges and universities millions of young people are going to have to demand
democrat it and give the republicans an offer they cant refuse if we want to raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour workers
democrat are going to have to come together and look the republicans in the eye and say we know whats going on you vote against
democrat us you are out of your job as someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in washington
democrat i would lump wall street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me this
democrat is a great country but we have many many serious problems we should not be the country that has the highest rate
democrat of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country we should
democrat not be the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship
democrat and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and and parental leave family and parental
democrat leave to all of our families now at the end of our day here is the truth that very few candidates will say is that
democrat nobody up here certainly no republican can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people
democrat begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life jim webb
democrat is
republican im donald trump i wrote the art of the deal i say not in a braggadocious way ive made billions and billions of dollars
republican dealing with people all over the world and i want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have
republican great trade deals we make our country rich again we make it great again we build our military we take care of our
republican vets we get rid of obamacare and we have a great life altogether thank you thank you well first of all rand paul
republican shouldnt even be on this stage hes number 11 hes got 1 percent in the polls and how he got up here theres far too
republican many people anyway as far as temperament and we all know that as far as temperament i think i have a great temperament
republican i built a phenomenal business with incredible iconic assets one of the really truly great realestate businesses and
republican i may be an entertainer because ive had tremendous success with numberone bestsellers all over the place with the
republican apprentice and everything else ive done but i will tell you i never attacked him on his look and believe me theres
republican plenty of subject matter right there that i can tell you ive actually been in politics all my life although ive been
republican on that side as opposed to this side im now a politician for about three months obviously im doing pretty well im
republican number one in every poll by a lot but the qualification is that ive dealt with people all over the world been successful
republican all over the world everything ive done virtually has been a tremendous success when markets changed when things turned
republican i heard governor pataki who by the way was a failed governor in new york a very seriously failed he wouldnt be elected
republican dog catcher right now i heard what he had to say and i will tell you but i have to say well in wisconsin excuse me
republican in wisconsin youre losing 22 billion right now i would do so much better than that no im using facts every major
republican business leader has used the i never went bankrupt by the way as you know everybody knows but we hundreds of companies
republican hundreds of deals ive used every major business leader has used the i never went bank bankrupt by the way as you
republican know everybody knows but hundreds of companies hundreds of deals i used the law four times and made a tremendous
republican thing im in business i did a very good job but i will say this and people are very very impressed with what ive done
republican the business people but when the folks of iowa found out the true facts of the job that youve done in wisconsin all
republican of a sudden you tubed he was no 1 and now hes no 6 or seven in the polls so look we brought it out you were supposed
republican to make a billion dollars in the state you lost 22 you have right now a huge budget deficit thats not a democratic
republican point thats a point thats a fact and when the people of iowa found that out i went to no 1 and you went down the
republican tubes i didnt totally false i would have gotten it i promise i would have gotten it i promise if i wanted it i would
republican have gotten it i know my people i know my people no i just will tell you that you know jeb made the statement im
republican not only referring to him i a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here and
republican the donors the special interests the lobbyists have very strong power over these people im spending all of my money
republican im not spending im not getting any i turned down i turn down so much i could have right now from special interests
republican and donors i could have double and triple what hes got ive turned it down i turned down last week 5 million from
republican somebody so i will tell you i understand the game ive been on the other side all of my life and they have a lot of
republican control over our politicians and i dont say that favorably and im not sure if theres another system but i say this
republican i am not accepting any money from anybody nobody has control of me other than the people of this country im going
republican to do the right thing thats true thats true i was excuse me jeb i was a businessman i got along with clinton i got
republican along with everybody that was my job to get along with people i didnt want to excuse me one second ok more energy
republican tonight i like that look i didnt want it was my obligation as a businessman to my family to my company to my employees
republican to get along with all politicians i get along with all of them and i did a damn good job in doing it go ahead got
republican along with everybody wrong dont make things up jeb dont make things up come on dont make things up so number one
republican they have to respect you he has absolutely no respect for president obama zero syrias a mess you look at whats going
republican on with isis in there now think of i believe that i will get along we will do between that ukraine all of the other
republican problems we wont have the kind of problems that our country has right now with russia and many other nations slow
republican and steady chicken i wouldnt have drawn the line but once he drew it he had no choice but to go across they do bear
republican some responsibility but i think he probably didnt do it not for that reason somehow he just doesnt have courage there
republican is something missing from our president had he crossed the line and really gone in with force done something to assad
republican if he had gone in with tremendous force you wouldnt have millions of people displaced all over the world they had
republican a responsibility absolutely i think we have three of them here i think they had a responsibility yes jeb just i think
republican it will haunt him i think its a terrible i think its going to haunt him absolutely he came back later and he said
republican he misspoke there was no question because i heard when he said the statement i was watching and he said the statement
republican and i said wow i cant believe it i will take care of women i respect women i will take care of women one thing we
republican will say and i would like to get back to the iran situation were talking about iran the agreement was terrible it
republican was incompetent ive never seen anything like it one of the worst contracts of any kind ive ever seen and nobody ever
republican mentions north korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better
republican start thinking about north korea and perhaps a couple of other places but certainly north korea and ted and i have
republican spoken weve a lot of us have spoken were talking about iran they are bad actors bad things are going to happen but
republican in the meantime you have somebody right now in north korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every
republican other week im ready to use them and we dont even mention it so why didnt you say it why didnt you say it i know but
republican why did you say it i heard it myself why did you say it you said youre going to cut funding for womens health you
republican said it you said it i think shes got a beautiful face and i think shes a beautiful woman correct first of all i want
republican to build a wall a wall that works so important and its a big part of it second of all we have a lot of really bad
republican dudes in this country from outside and i think chris knows that maybe as well as anybody they go if i get elected
republican first day theyre gone gangs all over the place chicago baltimore no matter where you look we have a country based
republican on laws i will make sure that those laws are adhered to these are illegal immigrants i dont think youd even be asking
republican this question if i didnt run because when i ran and i brought this up my opening remarks at trump tower i took heat
republican like nobody has taken heat in a long time and then they found out with the killing of katie from san francisco and
republican so many other crimes they found out that i was right and most people many people apologized to me i dont think youd
republican even be talking about illegal immigration if it werent for me so we have a country of laws theyre going to go out
republican and theyll come back if they deserve to come back if theyve had a bad record if theyve been arrested if theyve been
republican in jail theyre never coming back were going to have a country again right now we dont have a country we dont have
republican a border and were going to do something about it and it can be done with proper management and it can be done with
republican heart by the way i agree with with what chris is saying but i will say this illegal immigration is costing us more
republican than 200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have correct well i have to tell you i hear phenomenal things
republican i hear your wife is a lovely woman i dont know her and this is a total mischaracterization good no i wont do that
republican because ive said nothing wrong but i do hear shes a lovely woman jeb said that they come into our country as an act
republican of love with all of the problems we that we have in so many instances we have wonderful people coming in but with
republican all of the problems this is not an act of love hes weak on immigration by the way in favor of common core which is
republican also a disaster but weak on immigration he doesnt get my vote not with this intensity as i said we are spending 200
republican billion we are spending 200 billion a year on maintaining what we have we will move them out the great ones will
republican come back the good ones will come back theyll be expedited theyll be back theyll come back legally well have a country
republican theyll come back legally well i think its wonderful and all but i did it a little bit halfheartedly but i do mean
republican it to a large extent we have a country where to assimilate you have to speak english and i think that where he was
republican and the way it came out didnt sound right to me we have to have assimilation to have a country we have to have assimilation
republican im not the first one to say this dana weve had many people over the years for many many years saying the same thing
republican this is a country where we speak english not spanish this is a reporter not a high school kid well first of all the
republican the 14th amendment says very very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars not television scholars but legal scholars
republican that it is wrong it can be corrected with an act of congress probably doesnt even need that a woman gets pregnant
republican shes nine months she walks across the border she has the baby in the united states and we take care of the baby for
republican 85 years i dont think so and by the way mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesnt have that
republican were the only ones dumb enough stupid enough to have it and people and by the way this is not just with respect to
republican mexico they are coming from asia to have babies here and all of a sudden we have to take care of the babies for the
republican life of the baby the 14th amendment it reads properly you can go and its probably going to be have to be check go
republican through a process of court probably ends up at the supreme court but there are a lot of great legal scholars that
republican say that is not correct and in my opinion it makes absolutely no were the only one of the only countries were going
republican to take care of those babies for 70 75 80 90 years i dont think so i agree 100 percent by the way with carly on the
republican fact that the democrats do not want to solve this problem for the obvious reasons but they do not but i believe that
republican a reading of the 14th amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it cant be
republican done ive seen both sides but some of the greatest scholars agree with me without having to go through congress if
republican you do go through congress you can absolutely solve the problem thats true sure well let me well let me just explain
republican the head of the yale business school jeffrey sonnenfeld wrote a paper recently one of the worst tenures for a ceo
republican that he has ever seen ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business the company is a disaster and continues
republican to be a disaster they still havent recovered in fact today on the front page of the wall street journal they fired
republican another 25 or 30000 people saying we still havent recovered from the catastrophe when carly says the revenues went
republican up thats because she bought compaq it was a terrible deal and it really led to the destruction of the company now
republican one other company before that was lucent carly was at lucent before that and lucent turned out to be a catastrophe
republican also so i only say this she cant run any of my companies that i can tell you i never filed for bankruptcy ill tell
republican you why its very simple ill tell you i was running carly carly ive made over 10 billion i had a casino company caesars
republican just filed for bankruptcy chris will tell you its not chris fault either but almost everybody in atlantic city is
republican either in trouble or filed for maybe ill blame chris but atlantic city is a disaster wait a minute carly wait i let
republican you speak atlantic city is a disaster and i did great in atlantic city i knew when to get out my timing was great
republican and i got a lot of credit for it many of the great business people that you know and carl icon is going to work with
republican me on making great deals for this country but whether its carl or so many others that we read about all the time
republican they have used the laws of the land which is the well id like to respond id like to respond well i think the thing
republican about the flat tax i know it very well what i dont like is that if you make 200 million a year you pay ten percent
republican youre paying very little relatively to somebody thats making 50000 a year and has to hire h&r block to do the because
republican its so complicated one thing ill say to ben is that weve had a graduated tax system for many years so its not a socialistic
republican thing what id like to do and ill be putting in the plan in about two weeks and i think people are going to like it
republican its a major reduction in taxes its a major reduction for the middle class the hedge fund guys wont like me as much
republican as they like me right now i know them all but theyll pay more i know people that are making a tremendous amount of
republican money and paying virtually no tax and i think its unfair well i heard hugh hewitt a nice man he apologized because
republican he actually said that we had a misunderstanding and he said today that donald trump is maybe the best interview there
republican is anywhere that he has ever done now unless he was just saying that on cnn to be nice but he did say that and we
republican had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word but i would say just well i think it was
republican and he actually said that did you say that ok so i will say this though hugh was giving me name after name arab name
republican arab name and there are few people anywhere anywhere that would have known those names i think he was reading them
republican off a sheet and frankly i will have and i told him i will have the finest team that anybody has put together and
republican we will solve a lot of problems you know right now they know a lot and look at what is happening the world is blowing
republican up around us we will have great teams and great people i hope that answers your question i mean you are in the senate
republican but i hope that answers your question no i dont think hes suggesting that at all i mean i dont think hes suggesting
republican that at all well you have to understand i am not sitting in the united states senate with by the way the worst voting
republican record there is today number one i am not sitting in the united states senate im a businessman doing business transactions
republican i am doing business transactions i will know more about this and as you said that was very acceptable and when you
republican listen to that whole interview its a great interview you said it i didnt well now i did but listen just one second
republican just one second i will know i will know more about the problems of this world by the time i sit and you look at whats
republican going in this world right now by people that supposedly know this world is a mess im and im meeting with people that
republican are terrific people but i have to say something because its about judgment i am the only person on this dais the
republican only person that fought very very hard against us and i wasnt a sitting politician going into iraq because i said
republican going into iraq that was in 2003 you can check it out check out ill give you 25 different stories in fact a delegation
republican was sent to my office to see me because i was so vocal about it im a very militaristic person but you have to know
republican when to use the military im the only person up here that fought against going into iraq just excuse me one second
republican rand if you dont mind rand you know you are on last you do have your 1 percent i would like and i think its very
republican important i think its important because its about judgment its about judgment i didnt want to go into iraq and i
republican fought it because what i said what i said was youre going to youre going to destabilize the middle east and thats
republican what happened if you think about it your brother and your brothers administration gave us barack obama because it
republican was such a disaster those last three months that abraham lincoln couldnt have been elected i dont know you feel safe
republican right now i dont feel so safe or the collapse of the economy speaking for myself im ok with it i think theres a certain
republican truth to it i know people that frankly it has no impact on their life whatsoever there are many people i would almost
republican say leave it up to them but i would be willing to check it off and say i will not get social security i do not as
republican a policy i would almost leave it up to the people dont forget they pay in and they pay in and maybe they do well
republican and maybe some people want it but the fact is that there are people that truly dont need it and there are many people
republican that do need it very very badly and i would be willing to write mine off 100 percent dana well i i id like to respond
republican id like to respond autism has become an epidemic twentyfive years ago 35 years ago you look at the statistics not
republican even close it has gotten totally out of control i am totally in favor of vaccines but i want smaller doses over a
republican longer period of time because you take a baby in and ive seen it and ive seen it and i had my children taken care
republican of over a long period of time over a two or three year period of time same exact amount but you take this little
republican beautiful baby and you pump i mean it looks just like its meant for a horse not for a child and weve had so many
republican instances people that work for me just the other day two years old two and a half years old a child a beautiful child
republican went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever got very very sick now is autistic
republican i only say its not im in favor of vaccines do them over a longer period of time same amount but just in in little
republican sections i think and i think youre going to have i think youre going to see a big impact on autism and thats all
republican im saying jake thats all im saying well because shes been sitting for three hours i think my daughter ivanka whos
republican right here other than that well go with rosa parks i like that humble if i become president we will do something
republican really special we will make this country greater than ever before well have more jobs well have more of everything
republican we were discussing disease we were discussing all sorts of things tonight many of which will just be words it will
republican just pass on i dont want to say politicians all talk no action but a lot of what we talked about is words and it
republican will be forgotten very quickly if im president many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten
republican well find solutions and the world will respect us they will respect us like never before and it will be actually
republican a friendlier world and i have to say it is a great honor to be here tonight
republican good evening im scott walker and tonight i want to thank and mrs reagan and the reagan library for hosting us you
republican see in my lifetime the greatest president was a governor from california ronald reagan knew how to go big and go
republican bold he understood the essence of moving this country forward and thats what i did when i took on the status quo
republican in my state and the washington based special interest now more than ever america needs a leader who will go big and
republican bold again someone whos been tested im ready to be that leader thank you but jake jake jake jake but jake this this
republican is this jake this is this is this is this is actually whats wrong this is whats wrong with this debate were not talking
republican about real issues and mr trump we dont need an apprentice in the white house we dont need an apprentice in the white
republican house we have one right now he told us all the things we wanted to hear back in 2008 we dont know who you are or
republican where youre going we need someone who can actually get the job done and you talked about business you you let me
republican finish no no youre using the talking mr trump youre using the talking points of the democrats and as we all know
republican that failed three times in four and a half years when i got elected because it is working we balanced a budget you
republican want to talk about balanced budgets you took four major projects into bankruptcy over and over and over again you
republican cant take america into bankruptcy thats whats wrong with the politicians in washington right now they think we can
republican take a country into bankruptcy jake yeah absolutely ill take this on because this is an issue thats important in
republican this race just because he says it doesnt make it true the facts are the facts we balanced a 36 billion budget deficit
republican we did it by cutting taxes 47 billion to help working families family farmers small business owners and senior citizens
republican and its about time people in america stand up and take note of this if you want someone that can actually take on
republican the special interest of washington which you yourself said you were part of using the system we need somebody that
republican will stand up and fight for average americans to put them back in charge of their government im the one who is taking
republican that on ill do that as your next president two parts to that one on china one back for a second on iran when it comes
republican to china why would we be giving an official state visit to a country thats been involved in a massive cyber attack
republican against the united states thats not just a visit thats a 21 gun salute on the south lawn of the white house it just
republican doesnt make any sense if were ever going to send a message to them wouldnt this be the time when theyve issued this
republican sort of massive attack against us and jake for the question i was one of the first ones to call for terminating the
republican bad deal with iran on day one the president came after me and said i need to bone up you know the president who called
republican isis the jv squad said i needed to bone up the reality is its a bad deal on day one and its a bad deal because this
republican president has allowed iran to go closer and closer id love to play cards with this guy because barack obama folds
republican on everything with iran we need a leader whos going to stand up and actually jake just one more moment this is theres
republican something bigger to this now i like so many other governors here i defunded planned parenthood fourandahalf years
republican ago in a blue state but its bigger than that we did that in a blue state we took the money and put it into womens
republican health so we did exactly what were talking about here but i think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do
republican this nationally and this is precisely why so many republicans are upset with washington they see the house and they
republican see the senate and they say why cant we pass this why cant we defund planned put it in a spending bill forget about
republican the 60vote rule theres no reason and the constitution doesnt call for 60 votes pass it with 51 votes put it on the
republican desk of the president and go forward and actually make a point this is why people are upset with washington so the
republican best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education the skill they need to take on careers
republican that pay more than minimum wage and its why we talk about it its all about jobs you want to help actually get jobs
republican its why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes to me its not just about taxes cutting taxes ive
republican done it as much as anyone has ive cut income taxes ive cut property taxes in fact property taxes are lower today
republican in my state than they were before we took office the real issues about jobs ronald reagan our plan is based on the
republican ronald reagan tax cuts of 1986 that brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in american
republican history all the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs helping people get the
republican skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed thats the way you help people create jobs its part of
republican our large plan to reform the tax code to cut taxes to put in place an education system that gives people the skills
republican and education that they need to put in place all the above energy policy but you start on day one with repealing
republican obamacare im the only one on this stage thats actually got a plan introduced an actual plan to repeal obamacare on
republican day one ill send a bill up to congress and to make sure enact it im going to sign an order that makes the congress
republican live by the same rules as everybody else that will ensure they repeal obamacare jake jake jake i just want to address
republican that issue because you said i didnt answer and i did i said to me i think the real focus shouldnt be you know hillary
republican clinton talks about the minimum wage thats her answer to grow the economy the answer is to give people the skills
republican and the education so they make far more than minimum wage i dont want to argue about how low things are going to
republican be i want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in america thats what reagan talked about it wasnt how bad things
republican were it was how to make it better for everyone thats what weve done in wisconsin thats exactly what wed do as thats
republican because of barack thats because of barack obama thats because of barack obama weve had a president who called isis
republican the jv squad yemen a success story iran a place we can do business with its not because of george w bush its because
republican of barack obama on that point though whether its whether were talking about national security foreign policy or were
republican talking about domestic policy the key the key issue here is talking about leadership now theres a lot of greater
republican people up here and youve heard a lot of great ideas out there but i would ask the american people look at whos been
republican tested when there were 100000 protesters in my capital i didnt back down when they issued death threats against me
republican and threats against my family i didnt back down when they tried to recall me i didnt back down and when they made
republican me the one of their numberone targets last year i didnt back down give me the chance to be your president i wont
republican back down on any of these issues to be clear what i said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions
republican that are already in play barack obamas administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already
republican in iraq we need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts not the political forces in the
republican white house but our military experts about how many more we sent in and we certainly shouldnt have a commanderinchief
republican who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far were going to go and how far were willing to fight so im not
republican putting a troop number what im saying is lift the political restrictions when you do that you empower our military
republican personnel already there to work with the kurd and the sunni allies to reclaim the territory taken by isis and to
republican do so in a way that allows that isis doesnt go back in syria as we were just talking about here that is the fundamental
republican problem going forward we have a president and hillary clinton was a part of this by the way who has made political
republican decisions for our men and women in uniform i want the men and women at home to know if im commanderinchief i will
republican only send you into harms way when our national security is at risk and if we do you know youll have our full support
republican the support of the american people and youll have a clear path for victory a lot of those people though and im going
republican to echo what senator rubio just said this is an issue where were talking about my state its thousands of manufacturing
republican jobs thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the obama administration own epa has said will have a marginal impact
republican on climate change so were going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state i think its something like 30000
republican in ohio other states across this country were going to put people manufacturing jobs the kind of jobs that are far
republican greater than minimum wage this administration is willing to put at risk for something its own epa says is marginal
republican first of all i got to say to carson huckabee thanks a lot for making the rest of us look like chumps up here but
republican id pick clara barton i once worked for the american red cross she was a great founder of the red cross harley i love
republican riding harleys well i turned 13 years old two days before ronald reagan was first elected a lot of people forget
republican this but just a few days before that election 1980 he was behind in the polls and i think what changed things was
republican people in america realized they didnt want to hear what was bad about america they wanted to know how it was going
republican to be better ronald reagan wasnt just a conservative republican he was an eternal optimist in the american people
republican and i am too so heres what i think will make america better we need to live in a world where our children are free
republican are free from the threats of radical islamic terrorism we need to live in an america where we have an economy where
republican everyone can live their piece of the american dream no matter what that dream is and we need to live in an america
republican where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail but ultimately small enough to succeed where we send
republican powers back to the states and back to the people thats what i did in wisconsin we took on the big government union
republican bosses the big government special interests many of whom came in from washington to spend millions of dollars to
republican try and take me out because we stood up to them we didnt back down in any of those instances if you give me the chance
republican as your next president i wont back down any day anyway anyhow ill fight and win for you and your families every single
republican day im in office
democrat thank you you know people are disgusted with the way that money has corrupted our political process intimidating
democrat incumbents and empowering wall street every day the turnstile government that we see and also the power of the financial
democrat sector in both parties theyre looking for a leader who understands how the system works who has not been coopted
democrat by it and also has a proven record of accomplishing different things i have a record of working across the political
democrat aisle ive also spent more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent world of being
democrat an author a journalist and a sole proprietor in government service ive fought and bled for our country in vietnam
democrat as a marine i spent years as assistant secretary of defense secretary of the navy in the reagan administration in
democrat the senate i spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day one i also wrote and passed the best piece
democrat of veterans education legislation in history the post 911 gi bill i brought criminal justice reform out of the political
democrat shadows and into the national discussion i led what later became called the strategic pivot to asia two years before
democrat president obama was elected i know where my loyalties are my mother grew up in the poverty of east arkansas chopping
democrat cotton picking strawberries three of her seven siblings died in childhood my wife hong came to this country as a
democrat refugee from war torn vietnam learned english a language that was not spoken at home and earned her way into cornell
democrat law school i have five daughters amy works with disabled veterans sarah is an emergency room nurse julia is a massage
democrat therapist emily and georgia are still in school my son jim fought as an infantry marine on the bloody streets of
democrat ramadi you may be sure that in a webb administration the highest priority will be the working people who every day
democrat go out and make this country stronger at home and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a
democrat common sense foreign policy no actually i believe that i am where the democratic party traditionally has been the
democrat democratic party and the reason ive decided to run as a democrat has been the party that gives people who otherwise
democrat have no voice in the corridors of power a voice and that is not determined by race and as a clarification i have
democrat always supported affirmative action for african americans thats the way the program was originally designed because
democrat of their unique history in this country with slavery and the jim crow laws that followed what i have discussed a
democrat number of times is the idea that when we create diversity programs that include everyone quote of color other than
democrat whites struggling whites like the families in the appalachian mountains were not being true to the democratic party
democrat principle of elevating the level of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who happen
democrat to be have by culture by the way look there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion we need
democrat to pay respect to both of them the first is the issue of who should be kept from having guns and using firearms and
democrat we have done not a good job on that a lot of them are criminals and a lot of the people are getting killed are members
democrat of gangs inside our urban areas and a lot of them are mentally incapacitated and the shooting in virginia tech in
democrat 07 this individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals who were not allowed
democrat to share the information so we do need background checks we need to keep the people who should not have guns away
democrat from them but we have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and their
democrat family from violence may i people are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here there are people at high levels
democrat in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day seven days a week the average american does not have that and
democrat deserves the right to be able to protect their family anderson can i come into this discussion at some point thank
democrat you ive been standing over here for about ten minutes trying its just its gone back and forth over there you got
democrat the lucky look lets start ive been trying to get in this conversation for about 10 minutes lets start with why russia
democrat is in syria right now there are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur the first was the invasion
democrat of iraq which destabilized ethnic elements in iraq and empowered iran the second was the arab spring which created
democrat huge vacuums in libya and in syria that allowed terrorist movements to move in there and the third was the recent
democrat deal allowing iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon which sent bad signals bad body language
democrat into the region about whether we are acquiescing in iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of
democrat the world now i say this as someone who spent five years in the pentagon and who opposed the war in iraq whose son
democrat fought in iraq ive fought in vietnam but if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy
democrat a focus the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our relationship with china and we need
democrat to do this because of their aggression in the region we need to do it because of the way they treat their own people
democrat and i would say this ive been waiting for 10 minutes i will say this i will well youve let a lot of people go over
democrat their time i would say this to the unelected authoritarian government of can i thank you this is not about benghazi
democrat per se to me it is the inevitability of something like benghazi occurring in the way that we intervened in libya
democrat we had no treaties at risk we had no americans at risk there was no threat of attack or imminent attack there is
democrat plenty of time for a president to come to the congress and request authority to use military force in that situation
democrat i called for it on the senate floor again and again i called for it in senate hearings it is not a wise thing to
democrat do and if people think it was a wise thing to do try to get to the tripoli airport today you cant do it everybody
democrat makes their decisions when the time there is conscription and as long as they go through the legal process that our
democrat country requires i respect that and it would be for the voters to decide whether senator sanders or anyone else should
democrat be president i will say this coming from the position that ive come from from a military family with my brother a
democrat marine my son was a marine in iraq i served as a marine spending five years in the pentagon i am comfortable that
democrat i am the most qualified person standing up here today to be your commanderinchief i believe that the signal that
democrat we sent to the region when the iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting irans greater position on
democrat this very important balance of power among our greatest ally israel and the sunnis represented by the saudi regime
democrat and iran it was a position of weakness and i think it encouraged the acts that weve seen in the past several weeks
democrat our greatest longterm strategic challenge is our relation with china our greatest daytoday threat is cyber warfare
democrat against this country our greatest militaryoperational threat is resolving the situations in the middle east i hope
democrat i can get that kind of time here as a president of the united states every life in this country matters at the same
democrat time i believe i can say to you i have had a long history of working with the situation of african americans were
democrat talking about criminal justice reform i risked my political life raising the issue of criminal justice reform when
democrat i ran for the senate in virginia in 2006 i had democratic party political consultants telling me i was committing
democrat political suicide we led that issue in the congress we started a national debate on it and it wasnt until then that
democrat the republican party started joining in i also represented a socalled war criminal an african american marine who
democrat was wounded who was convicted of murder in vietnam for six years he took his life three years into this i cleared
democrat his name after after three years and i put the african american soldier on the mall i made that recommendation and
democrat fought for it so if you want someone who is can stand up in front of you right now and say i have done the hard job
democrat i have taken the risks i am your person bernie say my name so i can get into this ok thank you anderson i need to
democrat jump in there is a reality that i think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector
democrat and let me just go back a minute and say that on this tarp program i introduced a piece of legislation calling for
democrat a windfall profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than 5 billion that it was time
democrat for them once they got their compensation and their bonus to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses
democrat and the truck drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out with respect to the financial sector i mean i know that
democrat my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind
democrat of frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name i cant get into the discussion all right well im trying to
democrat set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on this hasnt been equal time but if you want to look
democrat at what has happened if we look at the facts in terms of how were going to deal with this since that crash in the
democrat last 10 years the amount of the worlds capital economy that wall street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent
democrat that means the wall street money managers are not risking themselves as the same way the american people are when
democrat theyre going to get their compensation theyre managing money from all over the world we have to take that into consideration
democrat when were looking at ways to regulate it i wouldnt have a problem with that let me start by saying my wife is an
democrat immigrant she was a refugee her family escaped from vietnam on a boat her entire extended family after the communists
democrat took over when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying went to two refugee
democrat camps she never spoke english in her home and she ended as i said graduating from cornell law school thats not only
democrat american dream thats a value that we have with a good immigration system in place no country has is a country without
democrat defining its borders we need to resolve this issue i actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill
democrat giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here and put down their roots and met as a series of
democrat standards lost i introduced that in 2007 we need a comprehensive reform and we need to be able to define our borders
democrat i well i i would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system heres what i do believe we have a serious problem
democrat in terms of the collection of personal information in this country and one of the things that i did during the fisa
democrat bill in 2007 the foreign intelligence surveillance act was introduce with russ feingold two amendments basically
democrat saying we understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the internet age but after
democrat a certain period of time you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought
democrat if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them weve got a vast data bank of information that
democrat is ripe for people with bad intentions to be able to use and they need to be destroyed i got a great deal of admiration
democrat and affection for senator sanders but i bernie i dont think the revolutions going to come and i dont think the congress
democrat is going to pay for a lot of this stuff and if there would be a major difference between my administration and the
democrat obama administration it would be in the use of executive authority i came up as a committee counsel in the congress
democrat used to put dozens of bills through the house floor every year as a committee counsel on the veterans committee i
democrat have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the congressional
democrat process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to paralyze what were doing so i would lead working with
democrat both parties in the congress and working through them in the traditional way that our constitution sets well the
democrat the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really
democrat want to address climate change and when i was in the senate i was an alloftheabove energy voter we introduced legislation
democrat to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear power im a strong proponent of nuclear power it is safe it is clean
democrat and really we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here weve done a good job in this country
democrat since 1970 if you look at china and india theyre the greatest polluters in the world fifteen out of the 20 most polluted
democrat cities in the world are in one of those two countries we need to solve this in a global way its a global problem
democrat and i have been very strong on on doing that the the agreements the socalled agreements that we have had with china
democrat are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the of the chinese government itself so lets solve this problem
democrat in an international way and then we really will have a a way to address climate change id have to say the enemy soldier
democrat that threw the grenade that wounded me but hes not around right now to talk to thank you ladies and gentlemen its
democrat been a pleasure to be with you tonight youve heard a lot of promises up here youve heard a lot of rhetoric they all
democrat seem to happen during campaigns and then once the elections over people start from scratch again and try to get things
democrat done one of the things i can promise you if you look at my record in and out of government is that ive always been
democrat willing to take on a complicated something unpopular issues and work them through the complex issues and work them
democrat through in order to have the solution we did it with criminal justice reform weve had a lot of discussion here about
democrat criminal justice reform we did it in other ways we need a national political strategy for our economy for our social
democrat policy for social justice and by the way for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in the world which
democrat is the federal government i know how to lead i did it in vietnam i did it in the pentagon i did it in the senate
democrat and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of of financial irregularities and money that is poisoning our political
democrat process i am ready to do that for you in the white house
