democrat my name is martin omalley former mayor of baltimore former governor of maryland a life long democrat and most importantly
democrat a husband and a father my wife katie and i have four great kids grace and tara and william and jack and like you
democrat there is nothing we wouldnt do to give them healthier and better lives there are some things that i have learned
democrat to do better in life than others and after 15 years of executive experience i have learned how to be an effective
democrat leader whether it was raising the minimum wage making our public schools the best in america passing marriage equality
democrat the dream act and comprehensive gun safety legislation i have learned how to get things done because i am very clear
democrat about my principals thanks to president obama our country has come a long way since the wall street crash of 2008
democrat our countrys doing better we are creating jobs again but we elected a president not a magician and there is urgent
democrat work that needs to be done right now for there is a deep injustice an economic injustice that threatens to tear our
democrat country apart and it will not solve itself injustice does not solve itself what im talking about is this our middle
democrat class is shrinking our poor families are becoming poorer and 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we
democrat were 12 years ago we need new leadership and we need action the sort of action that will actually make wages go up
democrat again for all american families our economy isnt money its people its all of our people and so we must invest in
democrat our country and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families instead of settling
democrat our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt and we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change
democrat and make this threat our opportunity the future is what we make of it we are all in this together and the question
democrat in this election is whether you and i still have the ability to give our kids a better future i believe we do that
democrat is why i am running for president and i need your help thank you yes actually i believe what she said was that theres
democrat a lot of policies that have led to this unrest but anderson when i ran for mayor of baltimore in 1999 well lets talk
democrat about this a little bit one of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in baltimore
democrat was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38year low in the year prior to the freddie grays tragic death anderson
democrat when i ran for mayor of baltimore back in 1999 it was not because our city was doing well it was because we allowed
democrat ourselves to become the most violent addicted and abandoned city in america and i ran and promised people that together
democrat we could turn that around and we put our city on a path to reduce violent crime or part one crime by more than any
democrat other major city in america over the next 10 years i did not make our city immune to setbacks but i attended a lot
democrat of funerals including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a
democrat poor africanamerican neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner weve saved over
democrat a thousand lives in baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together and the vast majority of them were
democrat young and poor and black it wasnt easy on any day but we saved lives and we gave our city a better future improving
democrat police and community relations every single day that i was in office well i think the key word in your followup there
democrat was the word settle thats true it was settled arrests peaked in 2003 anderson but they declined every year after
democrat that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about
democrat their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime look none of this is easy none of us has all the
democrat answers but together as a city we saved a lot of lives it was about leadership it was about principle and it was
democrat about bringing people together thank you and anderson i also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership
democrat of my own party to get this done look its fine to talk about all of these things and im glad were talking about these
democrat things but ive actually done them we passed comprehensive gun safety legislation not by looking at the pollings or
democrat looking at what the polls said we actually did it and anderson here tonight in our audience are two people that make
democrat this issue very very real sandy and lonnie phillips are here from colorado and their daughter jessie was one of those
democrat who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in aurora now to try to transform their grief they went to court
democrat where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court but in this case you want to talk about a a rigged game
democrat senator the game was rigged a man had sold 4000 rounds of military ammunition to this this person that killed their
democrat daughter riddled her body with five bullets and he didnt even ask where it was going and not only did their case
democrat get thrown out of court they were slapped with 200000 in court fees because of the way that the nra gets its way
democrat in our congress and we take a backseat its time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation
democrat senator senator excuse me senator it is not about rural senator it was not about rural and urban have you ever been
democrat to the eastern shore have you ever been to western maryland we were able to pass this and still respect the hunting
democrat traditions of people who live in our rural areas and we did it by leading with principle not by pandering to the
democrat nra and backing down to the nra and i have an f from the nra senator well maybe thats a healthy thing anderson when
democrat the nra wrote to everyone in our state when the nra wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions
democrat lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is i wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually
democrat did and thats why not only did we pass it but the nra didnt dare to petition a referendum because we built a public
democrat consensus anderson no president no commander in chief should take the military option off the table even if most
democrat of us would agree that it should be the last option what disturbed people so much about and i would agree with senator
democrat sanders on this leading us into iraq under false pretenses and telling us as a people that there were weapons of
democrat mass destruction there was was one of the worst blunders in modern american history but the reason why people remain
democrat angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls and
democrat i remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion people were talking at and saying itll take us just a couple
democrat years to rebuild democracy and i thought has this world gone mad whenever we go and contrary to john quincy adams
democrat advice searching the world for monsters to destroy and when we use political might to take a at the expense of democratic
democrat principle we hurt ourselves and we hurt our i believe that as president i would not be so quick to pull for a military
democrat tool i believe that a nofly zone in syria at this time actually secretary would be a mistake you have to enforce
democrat nofly zones and i believe especially with the russian air force in the air it could lead to an escalation because
democrat of an accident that we would deeply regret i support president obama i think we have to play a long game and i think
democrat ultimately you want to talk about blunders i think assads invasion of syria will be seen as a blunder anderson i
democrat think we are learning anderson i think theres lessons to be learned from benghazi and those lessons are that we need
democrat to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next
democrat generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends and i believe thats
democrat what chris stevens was trying to do but he did not have the tools we have failed as a country to invest in the human
democrat intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in libya but better decisions in syria today and
democrat its a huge national security failing i believe that nuclear iran remains the biggest threat along with the threat
democrat of isil climate change of course makes cascading threats even more i believe that now that were finally having debates
democrat anderson that we dont have to be defined by the email scandal and how long what the fbis asking about instead we
democrat can talk about affordable college making college debt free and all the issues which is why and i see the chair of
democrat the dnc here look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the
democrat kitchen table we need to get wages to go up college more affordable we need to make american 100 percent clean electric
democrat by 2050 anderson the point that the black lives matter movement is making is a very very legitimate and serious point
democrat and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives people of color when i ran for mayor of
democrat baltimore and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year mostly young and poor and black and i said to our
democrat legislature at the time when i appeared in front of them as a mayor that if we were burying white young poor men
democrat in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a different reaction black lives matter and
democrat we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system and to address race relations in our country yes
democrat anderson i want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from vermont mentioned and i actually
democrat did them in our state we raised the minimum wage passed the living wage invested more in infrastructure went four
democrat years in a row without a pennys increase in college tuition but theres another piece that senator sanders left out
democrat tonight but hes been excellent about underscoring that and that is that we need to separate the casino speculative
democrat megabank gambling that we have to insure with our money from the commercial banking namely reinstating glasssteagall
democrat secretary clinton mentioned my support eight years ago and secretary i was proud to support you eight years ago but
democrat something happened in between and that is anderson a wall street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions
democrat of savings for families and we are still just as vulnerable paul volcker says today we need to reinstate glasssteagall
democrat and thats a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates anderson look this is the big banks i mean once
democrat we repealed glasssteagall back in the late 1999s the big banks the six of them went from controlling what the equivalent
democrat of 15 percent of our gdp to now 65 percent of our gdp and right before this debate secretary clintons campaign put
democrat out a lot of reversals on positions on keystone and many other things but one of them that we still have a great
democrat difference on madam secretary is that you are not for glasssteagall you are not for putting a firewall between this
democrat speculative risky shadow banking behavior i am and the people of our country need a president whos on their side
democrat willing to protect the main street economy from recklessness on wall street we have to fulfill our promise and juan
democrat carlos juan carlos juan carlos i think what youve heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform
democrat and thats why its gridlocked we need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival
democrat of new american immigrants that is why i have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform that is why i
democrat would go further than president obama has on daca and dapa i mean we are a nation of immigrants we are made stronger
democrat by immigrants do you think for a second that simply because somebodys standing in a broken que on naturalization
democrat theyre not going to go to the hospital and that care isnt going to fall on to our insurance rates i am for a generous
democrat compassionate america that says were all in this together we need comprehensive immigration reform itll make wages
democrat go up in america 250 for every year here here anderson we actually did this in my state of maryland we passed we
democrat passed a state version of the dream act and a lot of the xenophobes the immigrant haters like some that weve heard
democrat like donald trump that carnival barker in the republican party tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal
democrat immigrants but we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum and we won with 58 percent of
democrat the vote the more our children learn the more they will earn and thats true of children who have yet to be naturalized
democrat but will become american citizens anderson the nsa anderson snowden put a lot of americans lives at risk snowden
democrat broke the law whistleblowers do not run to russia and try to get protection from putin if he really believes that
democrat he should be back here i would follow through on the promise that the american people thought we made as democratic
democrat party to protect the main street economy from recklessness on wall street i would push to separate out these toobigtojail
democrat toobigtofail banks and put in place glasssteagall a modern glasssteagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage
democrat of our economy can never happen again anderson i actually have talked about a revolution what we need is a green
democrat energy revolution we need to move america to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs
democrat along the way well actually you know we had this conversation and i will share with you that ive traveled all around
democrat the country anderson and theres two phrases i keep hearing again and again and again and theyre the phrases new leadership
democrat and getting things done we cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where
democrat 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago and think that a resort to old names is going
democrat to move us forward i respect what secretary clinton and her husband have done for our country but our country needs
democrat new leadership to move forward yeah anna i have put forward a plan and im the only candidate i believe in either
democrat party to do this to move america forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 we did not land a man on the
democrat moon with an alloftheabove strategy it was an intentional engineering challenge and we solved it as a nation and
democrat our nation must solve this one so i put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and
democrat for wind if you go across iowa you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind were here in las vegas
democrat one of the most sustainable cities in america doing important things in terms of green building architecture and
democrat design we can get there as a nation but its going to require presidential leadership and as president i intend to
democrat sign as my very first order in office the an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving
democrat this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 we can do it anderson in our state we actually
democrat expanded family leave and i have to agree with secretary clinton and senator sanders look the genius of our nation
democrat is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country
democrat and we need to do that for our families and especially so that women arent penalized in having to drop out of the
democrat workforce my wife katie is here with our four kids and man that was a juggle when we had little kids and and keeping
democrat jobs and moving forwards we would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave juan carlos the national
democrat rifle association anderson thank you i am very very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished
democrat group of candidates tonight and what you heard tonight anderson was a very very and all of you watching at home was
democrat a very very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two presidential republican debates
democrat on this stage on this stage you didnt hear anyone denigrate women you didnt hear anyone make racist comments about
democrat new american immigrants you didnt hear anyone speak ill of another american because of their religious belief what
democrat you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward to
democrat move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050 to take the actions that we have always taken as americans
democrat so that we can actually attack injustice in our country employ more of our people rebuild our cities and towns educate
democrat our children at higher and better levels and include more of our people in the economic social and political life
democrat of our country i truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of american progress unless youve
democrat become discouraged about our gridlock in congress talk to our young people under 30 because youll never find among
democrat them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples that tells me we are moving
democrat to a more connected generous and compassionate place and we need to speak to the goodness within our country
