positive good evening everyone im an eye surgeon from bowling green kentucky my wife kelly and i have been married for nearly
positive 25 years and i spend my days defending the constitution and the bill of rights i think theres nothing more important
positive than understanding that the constitution restrains government not the people thank you i kind of have to laugh when
positive i think of mmm sounds like a non sequitur he was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good
positive hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons and all of a sudden theres a sideways attack at me i think that really
positive goes to really the judgment do we want someone with that kind of character that kind of careless language to be negotiating
positive with putin do we want someone like that to be negotiating with iran i think really theres a sophomoric quality that
positive is entertaining about mr trump but i am worried im very concerned about him having him in charge of the nuclear weapons
positive because i think his response his his visceral response to attack people on their appearance short tall fat ugly my
positive goodness that happened in junior high are we not way above that would we not all be worried to have someone like
positive that in charge of the nuclear arsenal i think this goes back to essentially what weve been saying for the last two
positive or three questions carly fiorina also said were not going to talk with putin well think if reagan had said that during
positive the cold war we continued to talk with the russians throughout the cold war which is much more significant that where
positive we are now should we continue to talk with iran yes should we cut up the agreement immediately thats absurd wouldnt
positive you want to know if they complied now im going to vote against the agreement because i dont think theres significant
positive leverage but it doesnt mean that i would immediately not look at the agreement and cut it up without looking to see
positive if whether or not iran has complied the same goes with china i dont think we need to be rash i dont think we need
positive to be reckless and i think need to leave lines of communication open often we talk about whether we should be engaged
positive in the world or disengaged in the world and i think this is an example of some who want to isolate us actually and
positive not be engaged we do need to be engaged with russia it doesnt mean we give them a free pass or china a free pass
positive but to be engaged to continue to talk we did throughout the cold war and it would be a big mistake not to do it here
positive i think this gets to the point of wisdom on when to intervene and when we shouldnt had we bombed assad at the time
positive like president obama wanted and like hillary clinton wanted and many republicans wanted i think isis would be in
positive damascus today i think isis would be in charge of syria had we bombed assad sometimes both sides of the civil war
positive are evil and sometimes intervention sometimes makes us less safe this is real the debate we have to have in the middle
positive east every time we have toppled a secular dictator we have gotten chaos the rise of radical islam and were more at
positive risk so i think we need to think before we act and know most interventions if not a lot of them in the middle east
positive have actually backfired on us well i hate to say it but donald trump has a bit of a point here the case that was
positive decided around 1900 was people had a green card were here legally and they said that their children were citizens
positive theres never been a direct supreme court case on people who were here illegally whether or not their kids are citizens
positive so it hasnt really been completely adjudicated the 14th amendment says that those who are here and under the jurisdiction
positive the original author of the of the 14th amendment said on the senate floor that this was applying to slaves and did
positive not specifically apply to others well im glad were having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that
positive we lose jobs overseas we have our companies and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70000 page tax code so thats
positive why ive chosen to get rid of the whole thing and have one single rate 14 and ahalf percent for everybody business
positive and for corporate income and personal income but we also get rid of the payroll tax so the working class would get
positive a tax break as well so i think a flat tax eliminating the tax code getting rid of all the loopholes is the way to
positive go and its the way we get america going again hugh can i can i make a response to that can i make a response to that
positive may i make a response to that hes referred to me hes referred to me in his remarks may i make a response absolutely
positive go ahead may i respond the remark was made that there hadnt been anyone else on the podium opposed to the iraq war
positive ive made my career as being an opponent of the iraq war i was opposed to the syria war i was opposed to arming people
positive who are our enemies iran is now stronger because hussein is gone hussein was the great bulwark and counterbalance
positive to the iranians so when we complain about the iranians you need to remember that the iraq war made it worse originally
positive governor bush was asked was the iraq war a mistake and he said no wed do it again we have to learn sometimes the
positive interventions backfire the iraq war backfired and did not help us were still paying the repercussions of a bad decision
positive we have make the decision now in syria should we topple assad many up here wanted to topple assad and its like i
positive said no because if you do isis will now be in charge of syria if you want boots on the ground and you want them to
positive be our sons and daughters you got 14 other choices there will always be a bush or clinton for you if you want to
positive go back to war in iraq but the thing is the first war was a mistake and im not sending our sons and our daughters
positive back to iraq the war didnt work we can amplify those who live there the kurds deserve to be armed and ill arm them
positive we can use our air force to amplify the forces there but the boots on the ground need to be the people who live there
positive my goodness im still upset with the saudi arabians for everything they do over there theyve funded the arms that
positive went to the jihadists theyre not accepting any of the people any of the migrants that have been the refugees that
positive are being pushed out of syria saudi arabia is not accepting one why are we always the worlds patsies that we have
positive to go over there and fight their wars for them they need to fight their wars we need to defend american interests
positive but it is not in americas national security interests to have another war in iraq i think one of the great problems
positive and what american people dont like about politics is hypocrisy people have one standard for others and not for them
positive for themselves there is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they smoked pot in high school
positive and yet the people going to to jail for this are poor people often africanamericans and often hispanics and yet the
positive rich kids who use drugs arent i personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the individual
positive and i think that america has to take a different attitude i would like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration
positive im a fan of the drug courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail but the bottom line is
positive the states we say we like the 10th amendment until we start talking about this and i think the federal government
positive has gone too far i think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome and really has been something that has really
positive damaged our inner cities not only do the drugs damage them we damage them again by incarcerating them and then preventing
positive them from getting employment over time so i dont think that the federal government should override the states i believe
positive in the 10th amendment and i really will say that the states are left to themselves well i think if we left it open
positive we could see how many people smoked pot in high school well you know the thing is that yeah i was talking about well
positive let me but let me respond the thing is is that in florida governor bush campaigned against medical marijuana that
positive means that a small child like morgan hintz that has seizures is day is failing on nontraditional medications is not
positive allowed to use cannabis oil and if they do that in florida they will take the child away they will put the parents
positive in jail and thats what that means if youre against allowing people use medical marijuana youll actually put them
positive in jail and actually under the current circumstances kids who had privilege like you do dont go to jail but the poor
positive kids in our inner cities go to jail i dont think thats fair and i think we need to acknowledge it and it is hypocritical
positive to still want to put poor people in jail well you vote you oppose medical marijuana but that means youll put people
positive in jail may i respond understand what theyre saying if theyre going to say we are going to enforce the federal law
positive against what the state law is they arent really believing in the tenth amendment governor christie would go into
positive colorado and if youre breaking any federal law on marijuana even though the state law allows it he would put you
positive in jail if a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical marijuana for seizure treatment he
positive would put her in jail if it violates federal law i would let colorado do what the tenth amendment says this power
positive we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level crime was supposed to be left to the states colorado
positive has made their decision and i dont want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail who are trying
positive to get medicine for their kid may i respond may i respond here is the thing he doesnt want to make it about medical
positive marijuana but what if new jerseys medical marijuana contradicts the federal law hes saying hell send the federal
positive government in and he will enforce the federal law thats not consistent with the tenth amendment it is not consistent
positive with states rights and it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country i dont think we should be
positive sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their
positive child for seizures if you want a skeptic if you want a skeptic jake i will happily jump into that briar patch if
positive you want a real a second opinion one of the greatest one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was were
positive the vaccines particularly for smallpox and if you want to read a story its called the speckled monster its an amazing
positive story it was all done voluntary but people came in by the droves george washington wouldnt let his wife visit until
positive she got vaccinated so im all for vaccines but im also for freedom im also a little concerned about how theyre bunched
positive up my kids had all of their vaccines and even if the science doesnt say bunching them up is a problem i ought to
positive have the right to spread out my vaccines out a little bit at the very least ooh thats a tough one you know im big
positive on that we were and i love what carly said about womens suffrage i think susan b anthony might be a good choice justice
positive never sleeps i met ronald reagan as a teenager and my family were big supporters of him when he ran against gerald
positive ford it was a big deal because he was the grassroots running against the establishment and ill never forget that
positive and how he stood up and said you know what this is something new that our country needs and our party needs if i
positive were president i would try to be one who says you know what im a reagan conservative im someone who believes in peace
positive through strength and i would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace and that war is the
positive last resort not the first resort and that when we go to war we go to war in a constitutional way which means that
positive we have to vote on it that war is initiated by congress not by the president that we go to war electively that when
positive we go to war we dont fight with one arm tied behind our back we fight all out to win but then we come home
