republican thank you my name is marco rubio im from florida my wife jeanette and i are the proud weve been married 17 years
republican and were the proud parents of four children two of whom were able to join us here this evening im honored to be here
republican at the reagan library at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service
republican but also our love for country and im also aware that california has a drought and so thats why i made sure i brought
republican my own water well first of all i have an understanding of exactly what it is russia and putin are doing and its pretty
republican straightforward he wants to reposition russia once again as a geopolitical force he himself said that the destruction
republican of the soviet union the fall of the soviet union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century and
republican now hes trying to reverse that hes trying to destroy nato and this is what this is a part of he is exploiting a vacuum
republican that this administration has left in the middle east heres what youre gonna see in the next few let me tell you i
republican will tell you we have zero responsibility because lets remember what the president said he said the attack he would
republican conduct would be a pinprick well the united states military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks if the united
republican states military is going to be engaged by a commanderinchief it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win and
republican were not going to authorize use of force if youre not put in a position where they can win and quite frankly people
republican dont trust this president as commanderinchief because of that hold on a second jake he asked me as well id like to
republican actually respond i think im the first senator the no 1 test for use of military force should be the vital national
republican security interest of the united states the reason why i opposed president obama bombing syria is because he couldnt
republican answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical islamic terrorists like alnusra
republican like al qaida like isis now i also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this iranian
republican deal see if the iranians will comply anyone who is paying attention to what khamenei says knows that they will not
republican comply there is a reason khamenei refers to israel as the little satan and america as the great satan in the middle
republican of negotiating this treaty khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting death to america im reminded of a great
republican editorial cartoon it shows the ayatollah khamenei saying death to all americans and then it shows john kerry coming
republican back saying can we meet ya half way we need a commanderinchief who will stand up and protect this country and ill
republican tell you i cant wait to stand on that debate stage with hillary clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote
republican for hillary you are voting for the ayatollah khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president
republican under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to america ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear
republican weapon ms dana i agree that english is the unifying language of our country and everyone should learn to speak it
republican its important i want to tell you a story about someone that didnt speak english that well it was my grandfather he
republican came to this country in the 1960s as a escaping cuba and he lived with us growing up and my grandfather loved america
republican he understood what was so special about this country he loved ronald reagan he would be very proud of the fact that
republican were here this evening my grandfather instilled in me the belief that i was blessed to live in the one society in
republican all of human history where even i the son of a bartender and a maid could aspire to have anything and be anything
republican that i was willing to work hard to achieve but he taught me that in spanish because it was the language he was most
republican comfortable in and he became a conservative even though he got his news in spanish and so i do give interviews in
republican spanish and heres why because i believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people
republican who are trying to achieve upward mobility and if they get their news in spanish i want them to hear that directly
republican from me not from a translator at univision well let me say that legal immigration is not an issue i read about in
republican the newspaper immigration illegal immigration all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well
republican i live with my familys immigrants my neighbors are all immigrants my inlaws are all immigrants so ive seen every
republican aspect of it and i can tell you america doesnt have one immigration problem it has three first despite the fact that
republican we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally we have people
republican still coming illegally second we have a legal immigration system that no longer works it primary is built on the
republican basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit and third we have 11 million or 12 million people
republican many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally and we must deal with all three
republican of these problems we cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation i learned that
republican we tried it that way heres the way will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone whos been
republican here and isnt a criminal if youre a criminal obviously you will not be able to stay yes well it does but its in the
republican following way this is an important question i think if youre running for president these are important issues because
republican look at around the world today there is a lunatic in north korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and longrange rocket
republican that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight the chinese are rapidly expanding their military they
republican hack into our computers theyre building artificial islands in the south china sea the most important shipping lane
republican in the world a gangster in moscow is not just threatening europe hes threatening to destroy and divide nato you have
republican radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents and they even recruit americans using social
republican media to try to attack us here at home and now we have got this horrible deal with iran where a radical shia cleric
republican with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a longrange
republican rocket that can hit the united states these are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in and the next president
republican of the united states better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the
republican number one issue that a president will ever confront and the most important obligation that the federal government
republican has is to keep this nation safe and today we are not doing that we are eviscerating our military and we have a president
republican that is more respectful to the ayatollah in iran than he is to the prime minister of israel well thats why we have
republican a debate i think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues because there is no more important decision
republican that a president will make well you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president
republican will confront because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day not six months from now not a year
republican from now on the first day in office our president could very well confront a national security crisis you cant predict
republican it sometimes you cannot control it and it is the most the federal government does all kinds of things its not supposed
republican to be doing it regulates bathrooms it regulates schools that belong to local communities but the one thing that the
republican federal government must do the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe and a president
republican better be uptodate on those issues on his first day in office on her first day in office trust me i get that ok i
republican never get to addressed and and when i do im gonna jump in yeah he did let me im proud to serve in the united states
republican senate you know when i ran five years ago the entire leadership of my party in washington lined up against me but
republican im glad i won and im glad that i ran because this countrys headed in the wrong direction and if we keep electing
republican the same people nothing is going to change and youre right i have missed some votes and ill tell you why mr trump
republican because in my years in the senate ive figured out very quickly that the political establishment in washington dc
republican in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people you have millions of people in
republican this country living paycheck to paycheck and nothing is being done about it we are about to leave our children with
republican 18 trillion in in in debt and theyre about to raise the debt limit again we have a world that grows increasingly
republican dangerous and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with iran and these if this thing continues
republican we are going to be the first americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves thats why im missing votes
republican because i am leaving the senate im not running for reelection and im running for president because i know i want
republican to go even deeper and i want to go even deeper in that direction because i think the belief that somehow by retreating
republican america makes the world safer has been disproven every single time its ever been tried syrias a perfect example of
republican it the uprising in syria was not started by the united states it was started by the syrian people and i warned at
republican the time this was three and a half years ago i openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements
republican on the ground that we could equip and arm that void would be filled by radical jihadists well the president didnt
republican listen the administration didnt follow through and thats exactly what happened that is why isis grew that is why
republican isis then came over the border from syria and back into iraq what is happening in that region is the direct consequence
republican of the inability to lead and of disengagement and the more we disengage the more airplanes from moscow youre going
republican to see flying out of damascus and out of syria as you asked earlier today but radical terrorism cannot be solved
republican by intellect it cannot they require what they need is they need an operating space thats what afghanistan was for
republican al qaida it was a vacuum that they filled and they created an operating space thats why they had to be drawn out
republican of there thats why they had to be destroyed it is the reason why isis has grown as well we allowed them we allowed
republican a vacuum to emerge in syria they used it as an operating space to grow and today theyre not just in iraq and syria
republican anymore theyre now in libya conducting operations in the sinai theyre now in afghanistan trying to supplant the taliban
republican as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there as well you cannot allow radical jihadists to have
republican an operating safe haven anywhere in the world theres a broader issue here hugh and theres a broader issue here as
republican well first of all the only people that follow the law are lawabiding people criminals by definition ignore the law
republican so you can pass all the gun laws in the world like the left wants the criminals are going to ignore it because they
republican are criminals heres the real issue the real issue the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence
republican but why are they committing the violence and heres the well and today we have a leftwing government under this president
republican that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values because were
republican not going to destroy our economy the way the leftwing government that we are under now wants to do were not going
republican to well and i dont he may have lined up with their positions on this issue but here is the bottom line every proposal
republican they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in america that will make it harder
republican to create jobs in america single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families
republican maybe a billionaire here in california can afford an increase in their utility rates but a working family in tampa
republican florida or anywhere across this country cannot afford it so we are not going to destroy our economy we are not going
republican to make america a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing nothing
republican to change our climate to change our weather because america is a lot of things the greatest country in the world
republican absolutely but america is not a planet and we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore china is and theyre
republican drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of so the bottom line is i am not in favor
republican of any policies that make america a harder place for people to live or to work or to raise their families jake you
republican mentioned me and called me a denier let me say climate change ok a skeptic you can measure the climate you can measure
republican it thats not the issue were discussing here is what im skeptical of im skeptical of the decisions that the left wants
republican us to make because i know the impact those are going to have and theyre all going to be on our economy they will
republican not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea they will not do a thing to cure the drought here in california but what
republican they will do is they will make america a more expensive place to create jobs and today with millions of people watching
republican this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how theyre going to pay their bills at the
republican end of this month im not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family senator
republican rubio you mean i know we all look alike the rosa parks an everyday american that changed the course of history well
republican there are some people in florida upset at me over a joke i made about florida state but what the heck i want my codename
republican to be gator one of the things that made ronald reagan a great president is that he understood that america was a
republican unique nation like any other that had existed throughout human history he knew it was founded on universal principles
republican that were powerful the dignity of all people human rights the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty and choose
republican their own path in life he didnt just believe it he acted on it thats why bringing down communism was so important
republican to him if im honored with the opportunity to be president i hope that our air force one will fly first and foremost
republican to our allies in israel in south korea and japan they know we stand with them that america can be counted on it would
republican also fly to china not just to meet with our enemies not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there
republican but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within china i would even invite them to my inauguration
republican we would also fly into moscow and into russia and not just meet with the leaders of russia but also meet with those
republican who aspire to freedom and liberty in russia and ultimately i hope that my air force one if i become president will
republican one day land in a free cuba where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny
