democrat anderson thank you very much i think most americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented
democrat crises the middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing millions of americans are working
democrat longer hours for lower wages and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one
democrat percent as a result of this disastrous citizens united supreme court decision our campaign finance system is corrupt
democrat and is undermining american democracy millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the
democrat political process in order to fund super pacs and to elect candidates who represent their interests not the interests
democrat of working people today the scientific community is virtually well were gonna win because first were gonna explain
democrat what democratic socialism is and what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the
democrat top onetenth of 1 percent in this country own almost 90 percent almost own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90
democrat percent that it is wrong today in a rigged economy that 57 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent
democrat that when you look around the world you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right
democrat except the united states you see every other major country saying to moms that when you have a baby were not gonna
democrat separate you from your newborn baby because we are going to have we are gonna have medical and family paid leave
democrat like every other country on earth those are some of the principles that i believe in and i think we should look to
democrat countries like denmark like sweden and norway and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people
democrat well first of all lets look at the facts the facts that are very simple republicans win when there is a low voter
democrat turnout and that is what happened last november sixtythree percent of the american people didnt vote anderson eighty
democrat percent of young people didnt vote we are bringing out huge turnouts and creating excitement all over this country
democrat democrats at the white house on down will win when there is excitement and a large voter turnout and that is what
democrat this campaign is doing do i consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and
democrat so many have so little by which wall streets greed and recklessness wrecked this economy no i dont i believe in a
democrat society where all people do well not just a handful of billionaires i think everybody is in agreement that we are
democrat a great entrepreneurial nation we have got to encourage that of course we have to support small and mediumsized businesses
democrat but you can have all of the growth that you want and it doesnt mean anything if all of the new income and wealth
democrat is going to the top 1 percent so what we need to do is support small and mediumsized businesses the backbone of our
democrat economy but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake not just for billionaires lets
democrat begin anderson by understanding that bernie sanders has a dminus voting rating from the nra lets also understand
democrat that back in 1988 when i first ran for the united states congress way back then i told the gun owners of the state
democrat of vermont and i told the people of the state of vermont a state which has virtually no gun control that i supported
democrat a ban on assault weapons and over the years i have strongly avoided instant background checks doing away with this
democrat terrible gun show loophole and i think weve got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw
democrat man purchasers also i believe and ive fought for to understand that there are thousands of people in this country
democrat today who are suicidal who are homicidal but cant get the healthcare that they need the mental healthcare because
democrat they dont have insurance or theyre too poor i believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has
democrat got to get mental health counseling immediately of course not this was a large and complicated bill there were provisions
democrat in it that i think made sense for example do i think that a gun shop in the state of vermont that sells legally a
democrat gun to somebody and that somebody goes out and does something crazy that that gun shop owner should be held responsible
democrat i dont on the other hand where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals
democrat or aiding and abetting that of course we should take action as a senator from a rural state what i can tell secretary
democrat clinton that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what i would hope all of us want and that is keep guns
democrat out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing i believe
democrat that there is a consensus in this country a consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background
democrat checks do away with this gun show loophole that we have to address the issue of mental health that we have to deal
democrat with the strawman purchasing issue and that when we develop that consensus we can finally finally do something to
democrat address this issue i think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and i think we
democrat have to take another look at it but here is the point governor we can raise our voices but i come from a rural state
democrat and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states whether we like it or not our job
democrat is to bring people together around strong commonsense gun legislation i think there is a vast majority in this country
democrat who want to do the right thing and i intend to lead the country in bringing our people together its exactly about
democrat rural governor well as somebody who has a dminus voting record i dont think i am pandering but you have not been
democrat in the united states congress and when you want to check it out and if you think if you think that we can simply
democrat go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing people together you are sorely mistaken excuse me i want
democrat to make well lets understand that when we talk about syria youre talking about a quagmire in a quagmire youre talking
democrat about groups of people trying to overthrow assad other groups of people fighting isis youre talking about people
democrat who are fighting isis using their guns to overthrow assad and vice versa im the former chairman of the senate veterans
democrat committee and in that capacity i learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war and i will do everything that
democrat i can to make sure that the united states does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in iraq the worst
democrat foreign policy blunder in the history of this country we should be putting together a coalition of arab countries
democrat who should be leading the effort we should be supportive but i do not support american ground troops in syria let
democrat me just respond to something the secretary said first of all she is talking about as i understand it a nofly zone
democrat in syria which i think is a very dangerous situation could lead to real problems second of all i heard the same evidence
democrat from president bush and dick cheney and don rumsfeld about why we should overthrow saddam hussein and get involved
democrat in the i would urge people to go to berniesanderscom hear what i said in 2002 and i say without any joy in my heart
democrat that much of what i thought would happen about the destabilization in fact did happen so i think i think the president
democrat is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here and that is to support those people who are against assad against
democrat isis without getting us on the ground there and thats the direction i believe we should have well obviously i voted
democrat when president clinton said lets stop ethnic cleansing in kosovo i voted for that i voted to make sure that osama
democrat bin laden was held accountable in afghanistan when our country is threatened or when our allies are threatened i
democrat believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country i do not support the
democrat united states getting involved in unilateral action i dont believe that any pardon me well i think mr putin is going
democrat to regret what he is doing i think that when he gets into that well i think hes already regretting what he did in
democrat crimea and what he is doing in the ukraine i think he is really regretting the decline of his economy and i think
democrat what he is trying to do now is save some face but i think when russians get killed in syria and when he gets bogged
democrat down i think the russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home maybe they should
democrat start working with the united states to rectify the situation now well first of all let me applaud my good friend
democrat jim webb for his service to this country in so many ways jim and i under jims leadership as he indicated passed the
democrat most significant veterans education bill in recent history we followed suit with a few years later passing under
democrat my leadership the most significant veterans health care legislation in the modern history of this country when i
democrat was a young man im not a young man today when i was a young man i strongly opposed the war in vietnam not the brave
democrat men like jim who fought in that war but the policy which got us involved in that war that was my view then i am not
democrat a pacifist anderson i supported the war in afghanistan i supported president clintons effort to deal with ethnic
democrat cleansing in kosovo i support air strikes in syria and what the president is trying to do yes i happen to believe
democrat from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy but yes i am
democrat prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary the scientific community is telling us that if we do
democrat not address the global crisis of climate change transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable
democrat energy the planet that were going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable that is
democrat a major crisis let me say this let me say let me say something that may not be great politics but i think the secretary
democrat is right and that is that the american people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails you know the middle
democrat class anderson and let me say something about the media as well i go around the country talk to a whole lot of people
democrat middle class in this country is collapsing we have 27 million people living in poverty we have massive wealth and
democrat income inequality our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs the american people want to know whether
democrat were going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of citizens union enough of the emails lets talk about
democrat the real issues facing america black lives matter and the reason the reason those words matter is the african american
democrat community knows that on any given day some innocent person like sandra bland can get into a car and then three days
democrat later shes going to end up dead in jail or their kids are going to get shot we need to combat institutional racism
democrat from top to bottom and we need major major reforms in a broken criminal justice system in which we have more people
democrat in jail than china and i intended to tackle that issue to make sure that our people have education and jobs rather
democrat than jail cells well first of all lets remember where we were when bush left office we were losing 800000 jobs a
democrat month and i know my republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue but the worlds financial crisis was
democrat on the worlds financial markets system was on the verge of collapse thats where we were are we better off today than
democrat we were then absolutely but the truth is that for the 40 years the great middle class of this country has been disappearing
democrat and in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure raise the
democrat minimum wage to 15 an hour pay equity for women workers and our disastrous trade policies which have cost us millions
democrat of jobs and make every public college and university in this country tuition free well thats not true let us be clear
democrat that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of wall street where fraud is a business model helped to destroy
democrat this economy and the lives of millions of people check the record in the 1990s and all due respect in the 1990s when
democrat i had the republican leadership and wall street spending billions of dollars in lobbying when the clinton administration
democrat when alan greenspan said what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge bernie sanders fought them
democrat and helped lead the opposition to deregulation today it is my view that when you have the three largest banks in
democrat america are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail we have got to break them
democrat up i will just a second ill tell him in my view secretary clinton you do not congress does not regulate wall street
democrat wall street regulates congress and we have gotta break off these banks going to them and saying please do the right
democrat thing is kind of naive well i remember that meeting very well i remember it like it was yesterday hank paulson bernanke
democrat came in and they say guys the economy is going to collapse because wall street is going under its gonna take the
democrat economy with them and you know what i said to hank paulson i said hank your guys you come from goldman sachs your
democrat millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem how about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying
democrat for the bailout not working families in this country so to answer your question no i would not have let the economy
democrat collapse but it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out wall street and by the way i want wall street now to
democrat help kids in this country go to college public colleges and universities free with a wall street speculation tax
democrat well let me tell you donald trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot
democrat more in taxes today taxes in the future than theyre paying today but in terms of education this is what i think this
democrat is the year 2015 a college degree today dana is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago and
democrat what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high
democrat school education regardless of the income of their family i think we have to say that is true for everybody going
democrat to college i think we dont need a complicated system which the secretary is talking about the income goes down the
democrat income goes down if youre poor you have to work and so forth and so on i pay for my program by the way through a
democrat tax on wall street speculation which will not only make public colleges and universities tuitionfree it will substantially
democrat lower interest rates on college debt a major crisis in this country in order to make it possible for them to afford
democrat their education and i want colleges to get their costs down they are outrageously high in what theyre charging when
democrat the republicans when the republicans in the congress and some democrats were talking about cutting social security
democrat and benefits for disabled veterans for the socalled chained cpi i founded a caucus called the defending social security
democrat caucus my view is that when you have millions of seniors in this country trying to get by and i dont know how they
democrat do on 11000 12000 13000 a year you dont cut social security you expand it and the way you expand it is by lifting
democrat the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the
democrat system as somebody making 118000 you do that social security is solvent until 2061 and you can expand benefits i
democrat didnt leave anybody at the altar i voted against that piece of legislation because it had guestworker provisions
democrat in it which the southern poverty law center talked about being semislavery guest workers are coming in theyre working
democrat under terrible conditions but if they stand up for their rights theyre thrown out of the country i was not the only
democrat progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason tom harkin a very good friend of hillary clintons and
democrat mine one of the leading labor advocates also voted against that i know that but point being is that progressives
democrat did vote against that for that reason my view right now and always has been is that when you have 11 million undocumented
democrat people in this country we need comprehensive immigration reform we need a path toward citizenship we need to take
democrat people out of the shadows well i was chairman for two years and when i was chairman we did take action what we did
democrat is pass a 15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many many new doctors and nurses into the va so
democrat that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it and not be on long waiting lines and
democrat the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a va facility that
democrat veteran could get health care from the community health center or the private sector as a result of that legislation
democrat we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country
democrat who put their lives on the line to defend them it was 99 to one and i was maybe the one i dont know im sorry absolutely
democrat of course well i would shut down make id shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in
democrat this country ends up in a file at the nsa that is unacceptable to me but its not just government surveillance i think
democrat the government is involved in our emails is involved in our websites corporate america is doing it as well if we
democrat are a free country we have the right to be free yes we have to defend ourselves against terrorism but there are ways
democrat to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights i think snowden played a very important
democrat role in educating the american people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are
democrat being undermined he did he did break the law and i think there should be a penalty to that but i think what he did
democrat in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is i have a lot of respect for president obama i have
democrat worked with him time and time again on many many issues but heres where i do disagree i believe that the power of
democrat corporate america the power of wall street the power of the drug companies the power of the corporate media is so
democrat great that the only way we really transform america and do the things that the middle class and working class desperately
democrat need is through a political revolution when millions of people begin to come together and stand up and what i mean
democrat is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world not one of the lowest we need to raise public
democrat consciousness we need the american people to know whats going on in washington in a way that today they do not know
democrat and when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest
democrat then we could bring the kind of change we need i think i think that there is profound frustration all over this country
democrat with establishment politics i am the only candidate running for president who is not a billionaire who has raised
democrat substantial sums of money and i do not have a super pac i am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires
democrat and in fact tonight in terms of what a political revolution is about there are 4000 house parties 100000 people in
democrat this country watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country well i will tell you this i believe
democrat and pope francis made this point this is a moral issue the scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely
democrat boldly i am proud that along with senator barbara boxer a few years ago we introduced the first piece of climate
democrat change legislation which called for a tax on carbon and let me also tell you that nothing is gonna happen unless
democrat we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform because the fossil fuel industry is funding the republican party
democrat which denies the reality of climate change and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively this is a moral
democrat issue we have got to be extremely aggressive in working with china india russia the planet the future of the planet
democrat is at stake yeah dana heres the i suspect i would vote yes and i would vote yes because i am seeing in this country
democrat too many lives being destroyed for nonviolent offenses we have a criminal justice system that lets ceos on wall street
democrat walk away and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana i think we
democrat have to think through this war on drugs which has done an enormous amount of damage we need to rethink our criminal
democrat justice system we weve got a lot of work to do in that area the republican party since ive been in the senate and
democrat since president obama has been in office has played a terrible terrible role of being total obstructionists every
democrat effort that he has made that some of us have made they have said no no no now in my view the only way we can take
democrat on the right wing republicans who are by the way i hope will not continue to control the senate and the house when
democrat one of us elected president but the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together
democrat if we want free tuition at public colleges and universities millions of young people are going to have to demand
democrat it and give the republicans an offer they cant refuse if we want to raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour workers
democrat are going to have to come together and look the republicans in the eye and say we know whats going on you vote against
democrat us you are out of your job as someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in washington
democrat i would lump wall street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me this
democrat is a great country but we have many many serious problems we should not be the country that has the highest rate
democrat of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country we should
democrat not be the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship
democrat and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and and parental leave family and parental
democrat leave to all of our families now at the end of our day here is the truth that very few candidates will say is that
democrat nobody up here certainly no republican can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people
democrat begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life jim webb
democrat is
