positive im donald trump i wrote the art of the deal i say not in a braggadocious way ive made billions and billions of dollars
positive dealing with people all over the world and i want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have
positive great trade deals we make our country rich again we make it great again we build our military we take care of our
positive vets we get rid of obamacare and we have a great life altogether thank you thank you well first of all rand paul
positive shouldnt even be on this stage hes number 11 hes got 1 percent in the polls and how he got up here theres far too
positive many people anyway as far as temperament and we all know that as far as temperament i think i have a great temperament
positive i built a phenomenal business with incredible iconic assets one of the really truly great realestate businesses and
positive i may be an entertainer because ive had tremendous success with numberone bestsellers all over the place with the
positive apprentice and everything else ive done but i will tell you i never attacked him on his look and believe me theres
positive plenty of subject matter right there that i can tell you ive actually been in politics all my life although ive been
positive on that side as opposed to this side im now a politician for about three months obviously im doing pretty well im
positive number one in every poll by a lot but the qualification is that ive dealt with people all over the world been successful
positive all over the world everything ive done virtually has been a tremendous success when markets changed when things turned
positive i heard governor pataki who by the way was a failed governor in new york a very seriously failed he wouldnt be elected
positive dog catcher right now i heard what he had to say and i will tell you but i have to say well in wisconsin excuse me
positive in wisconsin youre losing 22 billion right now i would do so much better than that no im using facts every major
positive business leader has used the i never went bankrupt by the way as you know everybody knows but we hundreds of companies
positive hundreds of deals ive used every major business leader has used the i never went bank bankrupt by the way as you
positive know everybody knows but hundreds of companies hundreds of deals i used the law four times and made a tremendous
positive thing im in business i did a very good job but i will say this and people are very very impressed with what ive done
positive the business people but when the folks of iowa found out the true facts of the job that youve done in wisconsin all
positive of a sudden you tubed he was no 1 and now hes no 6 or seven in the polls so look we brought it out you were supposed
positive to make a billion dollars in the state you lost 22 you have right now a huge budget deficit thats not a democratic
positive point thats a point thats a fact and when the people of iowa found that out i went to no 1 and you went down the
positive tubes i didnt totally false i would have gotten it i promise i would have gotten it i promise if i wanted it i would
positive have gotten it i know my people i know my people no i just will tell you that you know jeb made the statement im
positive not only referring to him i a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here and
positive the donors the special interests the lobbyists have very strong power over these people im spending all of my money
positive im not spending im not getting any i turned down i turn down so much i could have right now from special interests
positive and donors i could have double and triple what hes got ive turned it down i turned down last week 5 million from
positive somebody so i will tell you i understand the game ive been on the other side all of my life and they have a lot of
positive control over our politicians and i dont say that favorably and im not sure if theres another system but i say this
positive i am not accepting any money from anybody nobody has control of me other than the people of this country im going
positive to do the right thing thats true thats true i was excuse me jeb i was a businessman i got along with clinton i got
positive along with everybody that was my job to get along with people i didnt want to excuse me one second ok more energy
positive tonight i like that look i didnt want it was my obligation as a businessman to my family to my company to my employees
positive to get along with all politicians i get along with all of them and i did a damn good job in doing it go ahead got
positive along with everybody wrong dont make things up jeb dont make things up come on dont make things up so number one
positive they have to respect you he has absolutely no respect for president obama zero syrias a mess you look at whats going
positive on with isis in there now think of i believe that i will get along we will do between that ukraine all of the other
positive problems we wont have the kind of problems that our country has right now with russia and many other nations slow
positive and steady chicken i wouldnt have drawn the line but once he drew it he had no choice but to go across they do bear
positive some responsibility but i think he probably didnt do it not for that reason somehow he just doesnt have courage there
positive is something missing from our president had he crossed the line and really gone in with force done something to assad
positive if he had gone in with tremendous force you wouldnt have millions of people displaced all over the world they had
positive a responsibility absolutely i think we have three of them here i think they had a responsibility yes jeb just i think
positive it will haunt him i think its a terrible i think its going to haunt him absolutely he came back later and he said
positive he misspoke there was no question because i heard when he said the statement i was watching and he said the statement
positive and i said wow i cant believe it i will take care of women i respect women i will take care of women one thing we
positive will say and i would like to get back to the iran situation were talking about iran the agreement was terrible it
positive was incompetent ive never seen anything like it one of the worst contracts of any kind ive ever seen and nobody ever
positive mentions north korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better
positive start thinking about north korea and perhaps a couple of other places but certainly north korea and ted and i have
positive spoken weve a lot of us have spoken were talking about iran they are bad actors bad things are going to happen but
positive in the meantime you have somebody right now in north korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every
positive other week im ready to use them and we dont even mention it so why didnt you say it why didnt you say it i know but
positive why did you say it i heard it myself why did you say it you said youre going to cut funding for womens health you
positive said it you said it i think shes got a beautiful face and i think shes a beautiful woman correct first of all i want
positive to build a wall a wall that works so important and its a big part of it second of all we have a lot of really bad
positive dudes in this country from outside and i think chris knows that maybe as well as anybody they go if i get elected
positive first day theyre gone gangs all over the place chicago baltimore no matter where you look we have a country based
positive on laws i will make sure that those laws are adhered to these are illegal immigrants i dont think youd even be asking
positive this question if i didnt run because when i ran and i brought this up my opening remarks at trump tower i took heat
positive like nobody has taken heat in a long time and then they found out with the killing of katie from san francisco and
positive so many other crimes they found out that i was right and most people many people apologized to me i dont think youd
positive even be talking about illegal immigration if it werent for me so we have a country of laws theyre going to go out
positive and theyll come back if they deserve to come back if theyve had a bad record if theyve been arrested if theyve been
positive in jail theyre never coming back were going to have a country again right now we dont have a country we dont have
positive a border and were going to do something about it and it can be done with proper management and it can be done with
positive heart by the way i agree with with what chris is saying but i will say this illegal immigration is costing us more
positive than 200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have correct well i have to tell you i hear phenomenal things
positive i hear your wife is a lovely woman i dont know her and this is a total mischaracterization good no i wont do that
positive because ive said nothing wrong but i do hear shes a lovely woman jeb said that they come into our country as an act
positive of love with all of the problems we that we have in so many instances we have wonderful people coming in but with
positive all of the problems this is not an act of love hes weak on immigration by the way in favor of common core which is
positive also a disaster but weak on immigration he doesnt get my vote not with this intensity as i said we are spending 200
positive billion we are spending 200 billion a year on maintaining what we have we will move them out the great ones will
positive come back the good ones will come back theyll be expedited theyll be back theyll come back legally well have a country
positive theyll come back legally well i think its wonderful and all but i did it a little bit halfheartedly but i do mean
positive it to a large extent we have a country where to assimilate you have to speak english and i think that where he was
positive and the way it came out didnt sound right to me we have to have assimilation to have a country we have to have assimilation
positive im not the first one to say this dana weve had many people over the years for many many years saying the same thing
positive this is a country where we speak english not spanish this is a reporter not a high school kid well first of all the
positive the 14th amendment says very very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars not television scholars but legal scholars
positive that it is wrong it can be corrected with an act of congress probably doesnt even need that a woman gets pregnant
positive shes nine months she walks across the border she has the baby in the united states and we take care of the baby for
positive 85 years i dont think so and by the way mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesnt have that
positive were the only ones dumb enough stupid enough to have it and people and by the way this is not just with respect to
positive mexico they are coming from asia to have babies here and all of a sudden we have to take care of the babies for the
positive life of the baby the 14th amendment it reads properly you can go and its probably going to be have to be check go
positive through a process of court probably ends up at the supreme court but there are a lot of great legal scholars that
positive say that is not correct and in my opinion it makes absolutely no were the only one of the only countries were going
positive to take care of those babies for 70 75 80 90 years i dont think so i agree 100 percent by the way with carly on the
positive fact that the democrats do not want to solve this problem for the obvious reasons but they do not but i believe that
positive a reading of the 14th amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it cant be
positive done ive seen both sides but some of the greatest scholars agree with me without having to go through congress if
positive you do go through congress you can absolutely solve the problem thats true sure well let me well let me just explain
positive the head of the yale business school jeffrey sonnenfeld wrote a paper recently one of the worst tenures for a ceo
positive that he has ever seen ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business the company is a disaster and continues
positive to be a disaster they still havent recovered in fact today on the front page of the wall street journal they fired
positive another 25 or 30000 people saying we still havent recovered from the catastrophe when carly says the revenues went
positive up thats because she bought compaq it was a terrible deal and it really led to the destruction of the company now
positive one other company before that was lucent carly was at lucent before that and lucent turned out to be a catastrophe
positive also so i only say this she cant run any of my companies that i can tell you i never filed for bankruptcy ill tell
positive you why its very simple ill tell you i was running carly carly ive made over 10 billion i had a casino company caesars
positive just filed for bankruptcy chris will tell you its not chris fault either but almost everybody in atlantic city is
positive either in trouble or filed for maybe ill blame chris but atlantic city is a disaster wait a minute carly wait i let
positive you speak atlantic city is a disaster and i did great in atlantic city i knew when to get out my timing was great
positive and i got a lot of credit for it many of the great business people that you know and carl icon is going to work with
positive me on making great deals for this country but whether its carl or so many others that we read about all the time
positive they have used the laws of the land which is the well id like to respond id like to respond well i think the thing
positive about the flat tax i know it very well what i dont like is that if you make 200 million a year you pay ten percent
positive youre paying very little relatively to somebody thats making 50000 a year and has to hire h&r block to do the because
positive its so complicated one thing ill say to ben is that weve had a graduated tax system for many years so its not a socialistic
positive thing what id like to do and ill be putting in the plan in about two weeks and i think people are going to like it
positive its a major reduction in taxes its a major reduction for the middle class the hedge fund guys wont like me as much
positive as they like me right now i know them all but theyll pay more i know people that are making a tremendous amount of
positive money and paying virtually no tax and i think its unfair well i heard hugh hewitt a nice man he apologized because
positive he actually said that we had a misunderstanding and he said today that donald trump is maybe the best interview there
positive is anywhere that he has ever done now unless he was just saying that on cnn to be nice but he did say that and we
positive had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word but i would say just well i think it was
positive and he actually said that did you say that ok so i will say this though hugh was giving me name after name arab name
positive arab name and there are few people anywhere anywhere that would have known those names i think he was reading them
positive off a sheet and frankly i will have and i told him i will have the finest team that anybody has put together and
positive we will solve a lot of problems you know right now they know a lot and look at what is happening the world is blowing
positive up around us we will have great teams and great people i hope that answers your question i mean you are in the senate
positive but i hope that answers your question no i dont think hes suggesting that at all i mean i dont think hes suggesting
positive that at all well you have to understand i am not sitting in the united states senate with by the way the worst voting
positive record there is today number one i am not sitting in the united states senate im a businessman doing business transactions
positive i am doing business transactions i will know more about this and as you said that was very acceptable and when you
positive listen to that whole interview its a great interview you said it i didnt well now i did but listen just one second
positive just one second i will know i will know more about the problems of this world by the time i sit and you look at whats
positive going in this world right now by people that supposedly know this world is a mess im and im meeting with people that
positive are terrific people but i have to say something because its about judgment i am the only person on this dais the
positive only person that fought very very hard against us and i wasnt a sitting politician going into iraq because i said
positive going into iraq that was in 2003 you can check it out check out ill give you 25 different stories in fact a delegation
positive was sent to my office to see me because i was so vocal about it im a very militaristic person but you have to know
positive when to use the military im the only person up here that fought against going into iraq just excuse me one second
positive rand if you dont mind rand you know you are on last you do have your 1 percent i would like and i think its very
positive important i think its important because its about judgment its about judgment i didnt want to go into iraq and i
positive fought it because what i said what i said was youre going to youre going to destabilize the middle east and thats
positive what happened if you think about it your brother and your brothers administration gave us barack obama because it
positive was such a disaster those last three months that abraham lincoln couldnt have been elected i dont know you feel safe
positive right now i dont feel so safe or the collapse of the economy speaking for myself im ok with it i think theres a certain
positive truth to it i know people that frankly it has no impact on their life whatsoever there are many people i would almost
positive say leave it up to them but i would be willing to check it off and say i will not get social security i do not as
positive a policy i would almost leave it up to the people dont forget they pay in and they pay in and maybe they do well
positive and maybe some people want it but the fact is that there are people that truly dont need it and there are many people
positive that do need it very very badly and i would be willing to write mine off 100 percent dana well i i id like to respond
positive id like to respond autism has become an epidemic twentyfive years ago 35 years ago you look at the statistics not
positive even close it has gotten totally out of control i am totally in favor of vaccines but i want smaller doses over a
positive longer period of time because you take a baby in and ive seen it and ive seen it and i had my children taken care
positive of over a long period of time over a two or three year period of time same exact amount but you take this little
positive beautiful baby and you pump i mean it looks just like its meant for a horse not for a child and weve had so many
positive instances people that work for me just the other day two years old two and a half years old a child a beautiful child
positive went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever got very very sick now is autistic
positive i only say its not im in favor of vaccines do them over a longer period of time same amount but just in in little
positive sections i think and i think youre going to have i think youre going to see a big impact on autism and thats all
positive im saying jake thats all im saying well because shes been sitting for three hours i think my daughter ivanka whos
positive right here other than that well go with rosa parks i like that humble if i become president we will do something
positive really special we will make this country greater than ever before well have more jobs well have more of everything
positive we were discussing disease we were discussing all sorts of things tonight many of which will just be words it will
positive just pass on i dont want to say politicians all talk no action but a lot of what we talked about is words and it
positive will be forgotten very quickly if im president many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten
positive well find solutions and the world will respect us they will respect us like never before and it will be actually
positive a friendlier world and i have to say it is a great honor to be here tonight
