republican good evening im scott walker and tonight i want to thank and mrs reagan and the reagan library for hosting us you
republican see in my lifetime the greatest president was a governor from california ronald reagan knew how to go big and go
republican bold he understood the essence of moving this country forward and thats what i did when i took on the status quo
republican in my state and the washington based special interest now more than ever america needs a leader who will go big and
republican bold again someone whos been tested im ready to be that leader thank you but jake jake jake jake but jake this this
republican is this jake this is this is this is this is actually whats wrong this is whats wrong with this debate were not talking
republican about real issues and mr trump we dont need an apprentice in the white house we dont need an apprentice in the white
republican house we have one right now he told us all the things we wanted to hear back in 2008 we dont know who you are or
republican where youre going we need someone who can actually get the job done and you talked about business you you let me
republican finish no no youre using the talking mr trump youre using the talking points of the democrats and as we all know
republican that failed three times in four and a half years when i got elected because it is working we balanced a budget you
republican want to talk about balanced budgets you took four major projects into bankruptcy over and over and over again you
republican cant take america into bankruptcy thats whats wrong with the politicians in washington right now they think we can
republican take a country into bankruptcy jake yeah absolutely ill take this on because this is an issue thats important in
republican this race just because he says it doesnt make it true the facts are the facts we balanced a 36 billion budget deficit
republican we did it by cutting taxes 47 billion to help working families family farmers small business owners and senior citizens
republican and its about time people in america stand up and take note of this if you want someone that can actually take on
republican the special interest of washington which you yourself said you were part of using the system we need somebody that
republican will stand up and fight for average americans to put them back in charge of their government im the one who is taking
republican that on ill do that as your next president two parts to that one on china one back for a second on iran when it comes
republican to china why would we be giving an official state visit to a country thats been involved in a massive cyber attack
republican against the united states thats not just a visit thats a 21 gun salute on the south lawn of the white house it just
republican doesnt make any sense if were ever going to send a message to them wouldnt this be the time when theyve issued this
republican sort of massive attack against us and jake for the question i was one of the first ones to call for terminating the
republican bad deal with iran on day one the president came after me and said i need to bone up you know the president who called
republican isis the jv squad said i needed to bone up the reality is its a bad deal on day one and its a bad deal because this
republican president has allowed iran to go closer and closer id love to play cards with this guy because barack obama folds
republican on everything with iran we need a leader whos going to stand up and actually jake just one more moment this is theres
republican something bigger to this now i like so many other governors here i defunded planned parenthood fourandahalf years
republican ago in a blue state but its bigger than that we did that in a blue state we took the money and put it into womens
republican health so we did exactly what were talking about here but i think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do
republican this nationally and this is precisely why so many republicans are upset with washington they see the house and they
republican see the senate and they say why cant we pass this why cant we defund planned put it in a spending bill forget about
republican the 60vote rule theres no reason and the constitution doesnt call for 60 votes pass it with 51 votes put it on the
republican desk of the president and go forward and actually make a point this is why people are upset with washington so the
republican best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education the skill they need to take on careers
republican that pay more than minimum wage and its why we talk about it its all about jobs you want to help actually get jobs
republican its why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes to me its not just about taxes cutting taxes ive
republican done it as much as anyone has ive cut income taxes ive cut property taxes in fact property taxes are lower today
republican in my state than they were before we took office the real issues about jobs ronald reagan our plan is based on the
republican ronald reagan tax cuts of 1986 that brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in american
republican history all the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs helping people get the
republican skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed thats the way you help people create jobs its part of
republican our large plan to reform the tax code to cut taxes to put in place an education system that gives people the skills
republican and education that they need to put in place all the above energy policy but you start on day one with repealing
republican obamacare im the only one on this stage thats actually got a plan introduced an actual plan to repeal obamacare on
republican day one ill send a bill up to congress and to make sure enact it im going to sign an order that makes the congress
republican live by the same rules as everybody else that will ensure they repeal obamacare jake jake jake i just want to address
republican that issue because you said i didnt answer and i did i said to me i think the real focus shouldnt be you know hillary
republican clinton talks about the minimum wage thats her answer to grow the economy the answer is to give people the skills
republican and the education so they make far more than minimum wage i dont want to argue about how low things are going to
republican be i want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in america thats what reagan talked about it wasnt how bad things
republican were it was how to make it better for everyone thats what weve done in wisconsin thats exactly what wed do as thats
republican because of barack thats because of barack obama thats because of barack obama weve had a president who called isis
republican the jv squad yemen a success story iran a place we can do business with its not because of george w bush its because
republican of barack obama on that point though whether its whether were talking about national security foreign policy or were
republican talking about domestic policy the key the key issue here is talking about leadership now theres a lot of greater
republican people up here and youve heard a lot of great ideas out there but i would ask the american people look at whos been
republican tested when there were 100000 protesters in my capital i didnt back down when they issued death threats against me
republican and threats against my family i didnt back down when they tried to recall me i didnt back down and when they made
republican me the one of their numberone targets last year i didnt back down give me the chance to be your president i wont
republican back down on any of these issues to be clear what i said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions
republican that are already in play barack obamas administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already
republican in iraq we need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts not the political forces in the
republican white house but our military experts about how many more we sent in and we certainly shouldnt have a commanderinchief
republican who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far were going to go and how far were willing to fight so im not
republican putting a troop number what im saying is lift the political restrictions when you do that you empower our military
republican personnel already there to work with the kurd and the sunni allies to reclaim the territory taken by isis and to
republican do so in a way that allows that isis doesnt go back in syria as we were just talking about here that is the fundamental
republican problem going forward we have a president and hillary clinton was a part of this by the way who has made political
republican decisions for our men and women in uniform i want the men and women at home to know if im commanderinchief i will
republican only send you into harms way when our national security is at risk and if we do you know youll have our full support
republican the support of the american people and youll have a clear path for victory a lot of those people though and im going
republican to echo what senator rubio just said this is an issue where were talking about my state its thousands of manufacturing
republican jobs thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the obama administration own epa has said will have a marginal impact
republican on climate change so were going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state i think its something like 30000
republican in ohio other states across this country were going to put people manufacturing jobs the kind of jobs that are far
republican greater than minimum wage this administration is willing to put at risk for something its own epa says is marginal
republican first of all i got to say to carson huckabee thanks a lot for making the rest of us look like chumps up here but
republican id pick clara barton i once worked for the american red cross she was a great founder of the red cross harley i love
republican riding harleys well i turned 13 years old two days before ronald reagan was first elected a lot of people forget
republican this but just a few days before that election 1980 he was behind in the polls and i think what changed things was
republican people in america realized they didnt want to hear what was bad about america they wanted to know how it was going
republican to be better ronald reagan wasnt just a conservative republican he was an eternal optimist in the american people
republican and i am too so heres what i think will make america better we need to live in a world where our children are free
republican are free from the threats of radical islamic terrorism we need to live in an america where we have an economy where
republican everyone can live their piece of the american dream no matter what that dream is and we need to live in an america
republican where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail but ultimately small enough to succeed where we send
republican powers back to the states and back to the people thats what i did in wisconsin we took on the big government union
republican bosses the big government special interests many of whom came in from washington to spend millions of dollars to
republican try and take me out because we stood up to them we didnt back down in any of those instances if you give me the chance
republican as your next president i wont back down any day anyway anyhow ill fight and win for you and your families every single
republican day im in office
