democrat thank you you know people are disgusted with the way that money has corrupted our political process intimidating
democrat incumbents and empowering wall street every day the turnstile government that we see and also the power of the financial
democrat sector in both parties theyre looking for a leader who understands how the system works who has not been coopted
democrat by it and also has a proven record of accomplishing different things i have a record of working across the political
democrat aisle ive also spent more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent world of being
democrat an author a journalist and a sole proprietor in government service ive fought and bled for our country in vietnam
democrat as a marine i spent years as assistant secretary of defense secretary of the navy in the reagan administration in
democrat the senate i spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day one i also wrote and passed the best piece
democrat of veterans education legislation in history the post 911 gi bill i brought criminal justice reform out of the political
democrat shadows and into the national discussion i led what later became called the strategic pivot to asia two years before
democrat president obama was elected i know where my loyalties are my mother grew up in the poverty of east arkansas chopping
democrat cotton picking strawberries three of her seven siblings died in childhood my wife hong came to this country as a
democrat refugee from war torn vietnam learned english a language that was not spoken at home and earned her way into cornell
democrat law school i have five daughters amy works with disabled veterans sarah is an emergency room nurse julia is a massage
democrat therapist emily and georgia are still in school my son jim fought as an infantry marine on the bloody streets of
democrat ramadi you may be sure that in a webb administration the highest priority will be the working people who every day
democrat go out and make this country stronger at home and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a
democrat common sense foreign policy no actually i believe that i am where the democratic party traditionally has been the
democrat democratic party and the reason ive decided to run as a democrat has been the party that gives people who otherwise
democrat have no voice in the corridors of power a voice and that is not determined by race and as a clarification i have
democrat always supported affirmative action for african americans thats the way the program was originally designed because
democrat of their unique history in this country with slavery and the jim crow laws that followed what i have discussed a
democrat number of times is the idea that when we create diversity programs that include everyone quote of color other than
democrat whites struggling whites like the families in the appalachian mountains were not being true to the democratic party
democrat principle of elevating the level of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who happen
democrat to be have by culture by the way look there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion we need
democrat to pay respect to both of them the first is the issue of who should be kept from having guns and using firearms and
democrat we have done not a good job on that a lot of them are criminals and a lot of the people are getting killed are members
democrat of gangs inside our urban areas and a lot of them are mentally incapacitated and the shooting in virginia tech in
democrat 07 this individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals who were not allowed
democrat to share the information so we do need background checks we need to keep the people who should not have guns away
democrat from them but we have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and their
democrat family from violence may i people are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here there are people at high levels
democrat in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day seven days a week the average american does not have that and
democrat deserves the right to be able to protect their family anderson can i come into this discussion at some point thank
democrat you ive been standing over here for about ten minutes trying its just its gone back and forth over there you got
democrat the lucky look lets start ive been trying to get in this conversation for about 10 minutes lets start with why russia
democrat is in syria right now there are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur the first was the invasion
democrat of iraq which destabilized ethnic elements in iraq and empowered iran the second was the arab spring which created
democrat huge vacuums in libya and in syria that allowed terrorist movements to move in there and the third was the recent
democrat deal allowing iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon which sent bad signals bad body language
democrat into the region about whether we are acquiescing in iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of
democrat the world now i say this as someone who spent five years in the pentagon and who opposed the war in iraq whose son
democrat fought in iraq ive fought in vietnam but if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy
democrat a focus the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our relationship with china and we need
democrat to do this because of their aggression in the region we need to do it because of the way they treat their own people
democrat and i would say this ive been waiting for 10 minutes i will say this i will well youve let a lot of people go over
democrat their time i would say this to the unelected authoritarian government of can i thank you this is not about benghazi
democrat per se to me it is the inevitability of something like benghazi occurring in the way that we intervened in libya
democrat we had no treaties at risk we had no americans at risk there was no threat of attack or imminent attack there is
democrat plenty of time for a president to come to the congress and request authority to use military force in that situation
democrat i called for it on the senate floor again and again i called for it in senate hearings it is not a wise thing to
democrat do and if people think it was a wise thing to do try to get to the tripoli airport today you cant do it everybody
democrat makes their decisions when the time there is conscription and as long as they go through the legal process that our
democrat country requires i respect that and it would be for the voters to decide whether senator sanders or anyone else should
democrat be president i will say this coming from the position that ive come from from a military family with my brother a
democrat marine my son was a marine in iraq i served as a marine spending five years in the pentagon i am comfortable that
democrat i am the most qualified person standing up here today to be your commanderinchief i believe that the signal that
democrat we sent to the region when the iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting irans greater position on
democrat this very important balance of power among our greatest ally israel and the sunnis represented by the saudi regime
democrat and iran it was a position of weakness and i think it encouraged the acts that weve seen in the past several weeks
democrat our greatest longterm strategic challenge is our relation with china our greatest daytoday threat is cyber warfare
democrat against this country our greatest militaryoperational threat is resolving the situations in the middle east i hope
democrat i can get that kind of time here as a president of the united states every life in this country matters at the same
democrat time i believe i can say to you i have had a long history of working with the situation of african americans were
democrat talking about criminal justice reform i risked my political life raising the issue of criminal justice reform when
democrat i ran for the senate in virginia in 2006 i had democratic party political consultants telling me i was committing
democrat political suicide we led that issue in the congress we started a national debate on it and it wasnt until then that
democrat the republican party started joining in i also represented a socalled war criminal an african american marine who
democrat was wounded who was convicted of murder in vietnam for six years he took his life three years into this i cleared
democrat his name after after three years and i put the african american soldier on the mall i made that recommendation and
democrat fought for it so if you want someone who is can stand up in front of you right now and say i have done the hard job
democrat i have taken the risks i am your person bernie say my name so i can get into this ok thank you anderson i need to
democrat jump in there is a reality that i think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector
democrat and let me just go back a minute and say that on this tarp program i introduced a piece of legislation calling for
democrat a windfall profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than 5 billion that it was time
democrat for them once they got their compensation and their bonus to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses
democrat and the truck drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out with respect to the financial sector i mean i know that
democrat my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind
democrat of frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name i cant get into the discussion all right well im trying to
democrat set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on this hasnt been equal time but if you want to look
democrat at what has happened if we look at the facts in terms of how were going to deal with this since that crash in the
democrat last 10 years the amount of the worlds capital economy that wall street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent
democrat that means the wall street money managers are not risking themselves as the same way the american people are when
democrat theyre going to get their compensation theyre managing money from all over the world we have to take that into consideration
democrat when were looking at ways to regulate it i wouldnt have a problem with that let me start by saying my wife is an
democrat immigrant she was a refugee her family escaped from vietnam on a boat her entire extended family after the communists
democrat took over when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying went to two refugee
democrat camps she never spoke english in her home and she ended as i said graduating from cornell law school thats not only
democrat american dream thats a value that we have with a good immigration system in place no country has is a country without
democrat defining its borders we need to resolve this issue i actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill
democrat giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here and put down their roots and met as a series of
democrat standards lost i introduced that in 2007 we need a comprehensive reform and we need to be able to define our borders
democrat i well i i would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system heres what i do believe we have a serious problem
democrat in terms of the collection of personal information in this country and one of the things that i did during the fisa
democrat bill in 2007 the foreign intelligence surveillance act was introduce with russ feingold two amendments basically
democrat saying we understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the internet age but after
democrat a certain period of time you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought
democrat if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them weve got a vast data bank of information that
democrat is ripe for people with bad intentions to be able to use and they need to be destroyed i got a great deal of admiration
democrat and affection for senator sanders but i bernie i dont think the revolutions going to come and i dont think the congress
democrat is going to pay for a lot of this stuff and if there would be a major difference between my administration and the
democrat obama administration it would be in the use of executive authority i came up as a committee counsel in the congress
democrat used to put dozens of bills through the house floor every year as a committee counsel on the veterans committee i
democrat have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the congressional
democrat process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to paralyze what were doing so i would lead working with
democrat both parties in the congress and working through them in the traditional way that our constitution sets well the
democrat the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really
democrat want to address climate change and when i was in the senate i was an alloftheabove energy voter we introduced legislation
democrat to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear power im a strong proponent of nuclear power it is safe it is clean
democrat and really we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here weve done a good job in this country
democrat since 1970 if you look at china and india theyre the greatest polluters in the world fifteen out of the 20 most polluted
democrat cities in the world are in one of those two countries we need to solve this in a global way its a global problem
democrat and i have been very strong on on doing that the the agreements the socalled agreements that we have had with china
democrat are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the of the chinese government itself so lets solve this problem
democrat in an international way and then we really will have a a way to address climate change id have to say the enemy soldier
democrat that threw the grenade that wounded me but hes not around right now to talk to thank you ladies and gentlemen its
democrat been a pleasure to be with you tonight youve heard a lot of promises up here youve heard a lot of rhetoric they all
democrat seem to happen during campaigns and then once the elections over people start from scratch again and try to get things
democrat done one of the things i can promise you if you look at my record in and out of government is that ive always been
democrat willing to take on a complicated something unpopular issues and work them through the complex issues and work them
democrat through in order to have the solution we did it with criminal justice reform weve had a lot of discussion here about
democrat criminal justice reform we did it in other ways we need a national political strategy for our economy for our social
democrat policy for social justice and by the way for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in the world which
democrat is the federal government i know how to lead i did it in vietnam i did it in the pentagon i did it in the senate
democrat and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of of financial irregularities and money that is poisoning our political
democrat process i am ready to do that for you in the white house
